===== PAGE 1 =====
Points Registry Updated and effective 7.2015   1 of 2 
World Swing Dance Council
407 Dahlia   Corona del Mar, CA   92625     www.swingdancecouncil.com 
 
 
 
WSDC Points Registry Document and Rules 
 
Division / Skill Level Definition 
WC101 / Newcomer Skill level - beginner or new competitor; have earned no points; not offered at all events  
Novice Skill level - have earned less than 15 Novice points 
Intermediate Skill level - have earned 15 or more Novice points; and less than 30 Intermediate points 
Advanced Skill level - have earned 30 or more Intermediate points 
All Star Skill level - have earned 45 or more Ad vanced points within 3 years prior to this event 
Champions/Invitational/Pro Skill level - as defined by the event 
Junior Age based - less than 18  years of age (all skill levels) 
Masters Age based - more than 50 years of ag e (and often, plus skill level requirements) 
 
This new structure/points recorded was effective February  1, 2015, and past points will not be affected. This 
version is just a clarification July 1, 2015.   The Tiers are based so lely on the number of Competitors and not the 
size of the Event. The Competitor's Points Registry must be used to determine dancers’ qualified skill level for both 
the Promoter and the Contestant. 
 
Points are recorded for current WSDC Registry Member  Events for Jack & Jill competition results only and only 
for the divisions listed above. Points that are recorded but don’t move you to another level/division: Juniors, 
Newcomer, Masters, All Star, and Champion/Pro/Invitational.   Points that are recorded but DO/CAN move you to 
another level/division:  Novice, Interm ediate, and Advanced.  Points will be  recorded based on  the Tiers below 
which is determined by number of Competitors.   
 
The Event Director is responsible to report the results of Jack & Jill competitions to the WSDC within 10 days of 
their event. They are responsible for advising the WSDC how many contestants were in each category, thereby 
setting up the Tier level for recording points, as stated below.  Event Directors are responsible for informing 
contestants of the point structure detailed below, an d skill levels as defined above, as well as having a Petition 
Process in place.  Points are not input into the database until fu ll results and dollar surcharge are turned into 
the WSDC from the Event Director.   
 
The Competitor  is responsible for knowing your WSDC assigned competitor ID number, and informed of these 
rules.  Please use your ID number when signing up for J&J contests at Events.  Competitors should know what 
division they should be competing in but use the Points Registry for rules if you are unsure.   
 
Points are recorded as follows:  When number of competitors is “uneven” , points will be recorded (Tiered) 
separately by leader/follower.  The minimum number of  couples (even leaders & followers) to make a contest 
eligible for recording/tracking is five (5).  Should a Tier 2 contest have more than 10 fi nalists or a Tier 3 contest 
have more than 15 finalists, t hose contestants placing beyond 10 th/15th place (respectively) in the final results will 
not receive a finalist point. 
 
Tier / # of Competitors 1 st Place 2 nd Place 3 rd Place 4 th Place 5 th Place Additional 
Tier 1 = 5-15 5 4 3 2 1 0 
Tier 2 = 16-39 10 8 6 4 2 1 point 6th up to 10 th  
Tier 3 = 40+ 15 12 10 8 6 1 point 6th up to 15th 
 
 


===== PAGE 2 =====
Points Registry Updated and effective 7.2015   2 of 2 
 
TIER 1 - 5 to 15 Competitors (Could be run as a "finals only", or perhaps semi and final) 
TIER 2 – 16 to 39 Competitors (Should at least be run as a semi/final, but could be prelim / semi / final) 
TIER 3 – 40+ Competitors (With this number of competitors, should be 3 rounds – prelim / semi / final) 
 
ADDITIONAL CONTEST POINTS RECORDING RULES: 
  
1) The WSDC only tracks and records points for Jack & Jill contests.  Points will only be recorded for those 
who danced in the final round only. 
2) Each Competitor may only dance/compete in one skill level division.   
3) Points are tracked and recorded fo r either Leader or Follower role.  Only points from ONE skill level 
competition per Event will be recorded.  Each competitor has only one WSDC Competitor ID number and 
is only listed once in the Registry, but will have their earned points separated between Leader and 
Follower.  The competitor’s total points will included points earned in both roles, for the total earned points 
needed to advance to the next level.  
4) Contests where the leader or follower dances and places tw ice in that division, that individual will only be 
awarded points in the highest of the two placements. 
5) For Events that combine divisions (i.e. Novice/Intermed iate), points will be tracked for all contestants in 
the lower of the two divisions. 
6) For Events that have different category names per divi sion, we may not record them.  Note what divisions 
are recognized by the WSDC (see the table on page one). 
7) For Events that are held over Ne w Years’ holiday, points will show as of December-end of that year 
(versus using January of the New Year). 
8) Points received prior to the last five (5) current years will not show on the Event Director’s copy of 
Registry Books. They will be archived and availabl e to see on the website (in other words, they are not 
“taken away”). 
 
Novice:  A Competitor must stay in Novice until they have earned at least 15 points in Novice.  
Intermediate:  A Competitor must have earned at least 15 poi nts in Novice, and stay in Intermediate until they have 
earned at least 30 points in Intermediate.  
Advanced:  A Competitor must have earned at least 30 points in Intermediate in order to move into Advanced. 
All Stars:  Not all events offer this division, and it’ s elective to enter if you qualify.  At least one of the 
qualifications to dance in All Stars is that the competitor has at least 45 current points in Advanced (earned within 
last 3 years). 
 
Petitions: All Events should offer Petitions and it can be on th e sign-up form.  For fairness, a committee, including 
the Chief Judge, would consider the requested reclassifica tion/petition after reviewing the dancer's record.  For 
Competitors, please note that if you have petitioned to dance in a higher/lower division at one Event, this does not 
"carry over" to the next Event. You may need to petition at the next Event as well.  Petitioning should only be to 
dance one level up or down only , or to stay in current division.  If a Competitor goes above or below one level 
from their qualified Skill Level, and the competitor finals  or place in that division, that competitor will NOT 
receive any points for that competition.  Once you have competed/earned (current) points in a higher division, you 
should stay in that division!   
 
Some valid Petitioning reasons: 
- points earned in a very small or very large competition (i.e. recognized by the Tiers) 
- points are old (perhaps over 7 years) 
- accomplished dancer who has not competed at many Registry events to earn points and wants to dance ‘up’ 
- qualified instructor, but without competition points,  who should not be competing against their own 
students 
  
The Points Registry is available at http://www.swingda ncecouncil.com/registry_search.asp.   A published version 
(hard copy or soft copy), detailing the individual results up to 60 points and showing the past five (5) years of 
competing, is given to the Event Director (WSDC Members only) just prior to their Event. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
WSDC Registry Event Requirements 7-1-2015  1 of 6 
World Swing Dance Council
407 Dahlia   Corona del Mar, CA   92625     www.swingdancecouncil.com 
 
  
 
WSDC Registry Event RULES / REQUIREMENTS 
 
As of January 1, 2007, the following are requirements for an event / competition to be a WSDC Registry Event 
(Updated 1-1-09) (Updated 1-1-10)(Updated 9-1-10)(Updated 1-1-12).(Updated 7-1-15) 
 
1) PROMOTING ENTITY: 
Registry Events are organized  and hosted by Professional Memb ers of the WSDC who are in 
current good standing, have submitted a Registry Event application and have had the event 
approved as a Registry Event by the WSDC Board of Directors. 
1. Existing Members shall have: 
a) Paid their annual July 1st – June 30th dues and submitted their membership and 
event info within the established deadlines and grace periods. 
2. New Members (or Existing Members, previously  without a Registry Event, desiring to 
add an event) shall: 
a) Submit a membership application at least six (6) months prior to a proposed event.  
The application submission shall note a proposed event date and location, and 
general information such as proposed competition divisions and structures, format, 
proposed staff, etc. 
b) Have an established event, with a minimu m of one (1) year of history completed.  
The event must have been run in accordance with these requirements (as if it 
already were a Registry Event) to be elig ible for application as Registry Event.  
New, ‘start-up’ events are asked to join as a Professional or Associate Professional 
member, with the first year event listed on our Other Event calendar; and then may 
apply for Registry Event status after successfully completing their first year. 
c) Review the calendar to identify any existing Registry Events that will occur within 
four (4) weeks or less of the proposed ev ent date and within a four hundred (400) 
mile radius of the proposed event location, to identify any concerns and conflicts 
of interest.  
3. Existing Members wishing to make changes in  time or location (city) to their Existing 
Registry Event are subject to the approval of the WSDC Board of Directors, and shall: 
a) Notify the WSDC Board of Directors of  the proposed change  of time and/or 
location at least six (6) months prior to the event.  
b) Review the calendar to identify any existing Registry Events that will occur within 
four (4) weeks or less of the proposed new event date and within a four hundred 
(400) mile radius of the proposed new ev ent location, to identify any concerns and 
conflicts of interest.  
4. All Members shall: 
a) Agree to comply with all of the following requirements. 


===== PAGE 4 =====
WSDC Registry Event Requirements 7-1-2015  2 of 6 
b) Pay annual dues as established by the WS DC.  Current dues are:  $200 per 7/1-
6/30 year; which includes the right to hos t and organize one (1) Registry Event. 
Those Members having additional existing Registry Events, as approved by the 
WSDC Board of Directors, shall in cur additional annual dues of $100 per 
additional Registry Event.  
After 30 days past due, Professional Members shall incur a $25 late  fee.  After 60 
days past due, membership will be considered un-renewed, and the member and 
their event(s) shall be dropped from the me mbership listings and event calendars.  
If the membership is not renewed within  120 days of the due date, the Registry 
Event status cannot be reinstated and the member/event would become a new 
event, on the Other Events calendar, subj ect to all requirements for eligibility 
(including a new, first year of history) for future reapplication as a Registry Event. 
c) Conduct their event, contest and business f unctions in an ethical manner; provide 
fair, unbiased and un-tampered competiti ons, judging and scoring; and shall meet 
their financial obligations and stated rules / policies. 
Violations will result in fines up to $1000 and/or loss of Registry Event status. 
d) Acknowledge that any membership (new applications, event changes, renewals, 
new event ownership entities, reinstatements) shall be accepted at the discretion of 
the WSDC Board of Directors; and that the WSDC reserves the right to deny any 
memberships and any additional events.   
 
 
2) COMPETITOR SURCHARGE: 
Registry Events must provide a surcharge to th e WSDC, at the rate of $1 per competitor for all 
competitors entering the Jack & Jill competitions which are tracked by the WSDC Competitors 
Registry (see the attached Points Registry Do cuments for current divisions tracked and points 
structure).  The competitor surcharge may be included within the established entry fee or added 
on to the established entry fee.  The surcharge payment is due to the WSDC within ten (10) 
calendar days after the close of the event.  
If the results and surcharges are not remitted with in 30 days after the event, a $25 late fee shall 
be assessed.  After 60 days and 90 days past th e event, additional $25 late fees shall be assessed. 
If the results and surcharges are not remitted within 120 days after the event, the member shall be 
in default and the event results will NOT be reco rded; and the event will lose its Registry Event 
status.  The member/event would become a new event, on the Other Events calendar, subject to 
all requirements for eligibility (including a new, first year of history) for future reapplication as a 
Registry Event. 
 
 
3)  COMPETITION RESULTS: 
Registry Events must report the results of the Jack & Jill competitions tracked by the WSDC 
Competitors Registry to the WSDC (utilizing the form / format provided by the WSDC) and 
include the WSDC Competitor ID numbers.  To  be in compliance, and out of respect for your 
competitors, the WSDC must receive the results w ithin ten (10) calendar days after the close of 
the event so that the WSDC can provide the most current Registries to following events.  Results 
will be only recorded upon receipt of the Competitor Surcharge remittance. 
 
 
 

===== PAGE 5 =====
WSDC Registry Event Requirements 7-1-2015  3 of 6 
4) EVENT STRUCTURE: 
Registry Events must comply with the following  minimum event structur e / organization, unless 
otherwise acknowledged and approved by the WSDC Board of Directors: 
1. Registry Events must be a minimum of three (3) days. 
2. Registry Events must be open to any dancer (n ational / international). Restricted or closed 
city, state or regional events are not eligible. 
3. Registry events must be held in a typical ho tel setting with appropriate ballroom and guest 
rooms available. 
4. Registry Events must offer a minimum of tw o (2) WSDC Registry Ja ck & Jill Tier I size 
skill level divisions; with a minimum of sixty (60) unique total Registry Divisions’ Jack & 
Jill contestants.   
a. If an event has less than sixty (60) unique contestants, that year’s results will still be 
posted and the appropriate Registry points awarded; but the event will lose its Registry 
Event status.   
b. However, the event may ‘petition’ to th e WSDC Board of Directors to maintain / 
continue their Registry Event status and ha ve a one (1) year probation to build their 
competitor base above the required minimum.   
c. If, after the probation year’s event, the event still has less than th e required minimum 
number of competitors, the event will not be renewed as a Registry Event (but could 
continue as an Other Event). The probation year’s event results would still be posted 
and appropriate Registry poi nts awarded. The professional member could reapply for 
Registry Event approval in the future, if it were to consistently reach the sixty (60) 
contestant minimum; but the event would be subject to the new event approval 
process. 
5. Registry Events must occur annually, and mu st maintain the same time frame and location 
(city) from year to year.  Changes in time frame and/or location mu st be approved by the 
WSDC Board of Directors. 
a. A one week change, earlier or later, than  an event’s traditional weekend is acceptable 
without WSDC Board of Directors approval.  Ev ents that are tied to a specific date or 
holiday may freely float between the weeken d before or after that specific date, 
dependant upon which day of the week that specific date falls in any given year.  
b. A change from one city to another city in  the same metropolitan area (and within a 
reasonable distance) shall not be considered a change in location.   
6. Registry Events will be allowed a one y ear break in the annua l occurrence (either a 
‘Cancellation’ of the current year, or going ‘On Hiatus’ for the upcoming year), without 
losing their Registry Event status, without losing their time-frame and location position on 
the event listing (i.e. for no tification of potential new even t conflicts) and without being 
subject to reapplication to and re-approval by the WSDC Board of Directors.  The one 
year break is automatically allowed with the following: 
a. Notifying the WSDC that the event is ‘Cancelled’ for the current year or selecting ‘On 
Hiatus” status for the following year.  
b. Maintaining continuous, paid-up membersh ip (i.e. no refund of current dues if 
‘Canceling’ in the current year and rene wing / paying their dues for the ‘On Hiatus’ 
year).  The event will then continue to be listed as a Registry Event with a “Cancelled 
for <year>”, “Postponed until <year>”, or “On Hiatus for <year>” note as appropriate. 
c. If the event is not held in the year following the ‘hiatus’ year (i.e. is not held for two 
consecutive years) and is then re-estab lished, it would subject  to the new event 
approval process.
 

===== PAGE 6 =====
WSDC Registry Event Requirements 7-1-2015  4 of 6 
5)  COMPETITION RULES & FORMAT: 
The following requirements must be met in the cont est structure / contest format for the Jack & 
Jill competitions tracked by the WSDC at a Registry Event, unless otherwise acknowledged and 
approved by the WSDC Board of Directors: 
1. Each Registry Event may only offer one (1) WSDC Registry contest for each WSDC skill 
or age level Jack & Jill. Each Registry Event must offer a minimum of (2) WSDC 
Registry Jack & Jill divisions. 
2. Each competitor may enter only one (1) WSDC skill level Jack and Jill.  Each competitor 
may enter only one (1) age level appropriate WSDC Jack & Jill. 
Violations will result in that event’s contes t results NOT being entered in the WSDC 
Competitors Registry and the event’s surcharge s will NOT be accepted.  The event will 
lose its Registry Event status. 
3. Each competitor may enter as either a Leader  or Follower, within their respective skill 
level division, at any given Registry Event that  allows the option; or enter as traditional 
Male/Leader or Female/Follower roles at Registry Events that maintain traditional roles. 
Violations (competitors dancing in one division as a Leader and also in one division as a 
Follower) will result in that event’s cont est results NOT being entered in the WSDC 
Competitors Registry and the event’s surcharge s will NOT be accepted.  The event will 
lose its Registry Event status. 
4. Chief Judge and Scoring / Tabulations functi ons and duties must be provided by separate 
individuals; and both functions must be inde pendent of the event s ponsor/director and/or 
owner(s). 
5. The event director and/or owner(s) must not compete in any contests at their event. 
6. The Chief Judge must not compete in any contests at the event. 
7. The Scoreperson must not compete in any contests at the event. 
8. The WSDC Competitors Registry must be util ized to determine the appropriate division 
for a competitor to enter.  Any exceptions to the Registry must be via the petitioning 
process with appropriate approval. 
Violations will result in fines of up to $10 per improperly placed competitor and/or the 
loss of Registry Event status. 
9. Competitions must not be artificially ‘evene d up’ via shifting of competitors from one 
division to another, changing competitors’ divisions, adding ‘walk-on’ competitors from 
the audience (i.e. not pre-signed up), adding ‘stand-in’ dancers, etc. 
10. The integrity of any random and/or unbiased functions must be ma intained.  Rotations 
(typically, in preliminary heats) shall be determined by the rolling of dice, a random 
number generator, or the drawing of number  cards.  Determining which dancers dance 
more than once (in uneven preliminary heats) sh all be random.  The pairing of partners in 
the finals and determining the order of dan ce shall be via a random computer function or 
the drawing of dance partner names and/or dance order ‘on the floor’. 
11. All contest results / awards must utilize judges making i ndependent decisions and the 
scores properly compiled, tabulated and reviewed. 
12. Finals contests’ results must be tabulated utilizing the Relative Placement Scoring System.  
Preliminary contests must utilize the Callback System for determining finalists.  All 
scoring shall be computerized; and shall be  tabulated by someone thoroughly trained and 
knowledgeable in the Callback and Relative Pl acement scoring systems. A computerized 
scoring system shall allow for placing competitors within the various divisions and 
contests, randomly assign competitors to heats in the preliminary rounds, create 
information populated preliminary individual a nd couples contest judging sheets, tabulate 

===== PAGE 7 =====
WSDC Registry Event Requirements 7-1-2015  5 of 6 
call-backs and rank them, create call-b ack announcement sheets, carry-forward 
contestants to finals contests, randomly assign competitors in order or place in order per 
drawing-for-order, randomly assign partners (if needed),  create information populated 
finals contest judging sheets, tabulate and rank finals contests results and provide results / 
announcement / posting sheets. 
13. Group judging decisions (whether ‘on the fl oor’ or ‘in the back room’), ‘tap out’ 
eliminations during the contest (whether by an individual j udge or as a group), 
instantaneous (i.e. ‘on the floor’) decisions / awards, etc. are not acceptable. 
14. A minimum of five (5) judges are required for fi nals contests (for relative placement); an 
even number of judges shall not be used.  If judges are judging one se x only (typically in 
preliminary contests), a minimum of six (6) total judges (three judging each sex) is 
required. (Note: The WSDC recommends seven (7) judges or more to be utilized for all 
finals competitions (Relative Placement Scor ing), and eight (8) to ten (10) judges (4-5 
judges judging each sex) to be utilized for all Prelimi nary competitions (Callback 
Scoring) if at all possible; bu t the limitations that may be imposed due to staff size, 
schedule constraints and judging expenses is recognized.) 
15. Any potential (real or percei ved) conflicts, whether favorit ism or bias – positive or 
negative, between any judges and competitors shall be identified; and judging assignments 
shall be determined around the conflict.  Di rect conflicts include  immediate family / 
spouse / romantic relationship partners, and business (competition / coaching / teaching) 
partners. 
 
Unless noted otherwise specifically abo ve, a violation to any rule is subject to fines of up to $1000 
and/or loss of Registry Event status. 
 
 
ADDITIONAL EVENT / COMPETITION RECOMMENDATIONS 
 
1) The WSDC recommends that all contestants shall be Adults (competitors having reached their 
18
th birthday on or before the close of the event).  Junior divisions (those less than 18 years of 
age) are desired and encouraged by the WS DC.  The WSDC recommends that minors and 
adults shall not compete together, nor against each other. 
2) Results postings shall be open to competitors, and shall be posted for a pre-determined, 
limited time period and monitored.  The WSDC recommends that a) postings shall   reference 
the judges by a designation, with a separate listing of the judges’ names with those 
designations, b) the posting of Callbacks shall include only those competitors with at least one 
(1) callback or alternate, and c) that the posting of Finals contests  shall include only the top 
10-12 placements. 
3) The WSDC recommends avoiding combining divisions of skill levels of dance competition, if 
at all possible; but the limitations that may be im posed due to lack of entrants, time / schedule 
constraints, judges’ fees and award costs, etc. is recognized.   
4) If an event has a variety of partner competitions, the WSDC recommends that a competitor 
shall have a different partner for each partnered division.  If a partnership consists of 
competitors of different levels, the WSDC reco mmends that the couple shall compete at the 
higher level.  
 
 
 

===== PAGE 8 =====
WSDC Registry Event Requirements 7-1-2015  6 of 6 
These minimum rules for WSDC Registry  Events have been developed for 
consistency among WSDC Registry Events / competitions and for fairness to all 
competitors and events.  The rules are continually evolving and subject to change. 
 
The rules are enforced by the WSDC Ex ecutive Board.  The WSDC reserves the 
right to revise / add / delete rules, accept  events and assign penalties and violations 
at its discretion. Unless otherwise appro ved, any WSDC Professional Member / 
Registry Event that does not comply with the above REQUIREMENTS will be 
considered ‘in default’ of their membe rship; subject to penalties and/or loss of 
WSDC Registry Event status as outlined ab ove.    Members in default may reapply 
for WSDC membership as new member, subj ect to approval by the WSDC Board of 
Directors. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The WSDC serves to promote, encourage and enhance swing dancing on a national and world level; and 
respects the interests of both new and existing members of the entire swing dance community. 