===== PAGE 1 =====
 
WSDC Points Registry update, effective Jan 3, 2018            RPR Version 2018.1B 1 
World Swing Dance Council 
   9151 Atlanta Ave. #7452,  Huntington Beach, CA 92615   www.worldsdc.com  
 
 
WSDC Points Registry Rules  
 
POINTS REGISTRY  
The WSDC Points Registry was developed and is maintained by the  WSDC. The Points Registry is the official record used 
to track individual Com petitors’ results in Jack and Jill competitions at WSDC Registry Member Events. Directors and 
Competitors use the Points Registry data to determine a Competitor’s appropriate skill level for WSDC Jack and Jill 
competitions (see WSDC Jack and Jill Advancement Chart) . Note: the Points Registry records skill level divisions only; it 
does not record age -based Jack and Jill competition placements.   
 
Each Competitor who receives at least one WSDC point is  assigned a unique ID number , which is then maintained in the 
Points Registry. WSDC points are awarded at WSDC Registry Member Events, as outlined in the Point Tiers below. The 
Points Registry is available at worldsdc.com/registry-points. It is accessible online to the general public.  
 
POINT TIERS & POINTS AWARDED CHART  
Tiers are defined only by the number of Competitors  (see Tier size below)  in a specific Jack and Jill division at a WSDC 
Registry Member Event , and not by the size of the event. The greater the number of Competitors within a division, the 
higher the Tier, and the greater the points  potential. The Points Award per Tier chart lists the points awarded to a 
Competitor according to their  placement in the finals . 
POINTS AWARD PER TIER CHART  
Tier # of 
competitors 1st Place 2nd 
Place 
3rd 
Place 
4th 
Place 
5th 
Place 
Additional Placements 
in Final 
Tier 1 5-10  3 2 1 0 0 0 
Tier 2 11-19  6 4 3 2 1 0 
Tier 3 20-39  10 8 6 4 2 1 pt (up to 12th place) 
Tier 4 40-79  15 12 10 8 6 1 pt (up to 15th place) 
Tier 5 80-129 20 16 14 12 10 2 pts (up to 15th place) 
Tier 6 130+  25 22 18 15 12 2 pts (up to 15th place) 
 
TIER Minimums and Guidelines  
There must be a minimum of five (5) leaders and five (5) followers in a specific Jack and Jill division for a competition to 
be eligible for inclusion in the Points Registry.  
 
Dancing in finals does not guarantee that a Competitor will be awarded points. The Points Award per Tier chart (see above) 
identifies the maximum number of finalists that may receive points, based on a Competitor’s placement in finals.  Points 
awarded to leaders and followers may not be identical since the points are based on the Tier  level. Each role (leader or 
follower) within a contest may have a different number of Competitors and thus be in a different tier.  
 
Tier Size (with recommended number of rounds)  
TIER 1: 5-10 Competitors (Should be a "finals only")  
TIER 2: 11-19 Competitors (Should have a semi and final)  
TIER 3: 20-39 Competitors (Should have at least a semi and final) 
TIER 4: 40-79 Competitors (Should have 3 rounds: prelim, semi and final)  
TIER 5: 80-129 Competitors (Should have at least 3 rounds: prelim, semi and final)  
TIER 6: 130+ Competitors  (Should have at least 4 rounds: prelim, quarters, semi and final) 
 
 


===== PAGE 2 =====
 
WSDC Points Registry update, effective Jan 3, 2018            RPR Version 2018.1B 2 
 
 
SPECIFIC RULES REGARDING COMPETITOR DIVISIONS AND POINTS  
1) Each competitor has one WSDC Competitor ID number for the Points Registry, independent of their role as leader 
or follower. 
2) Each Competitor may compete in only one skill level division . Note: Competitors may compete in an age category 
independent of their skill level, according to an individual Event’s rules.  
3) Competitors who wish to dance “up” (i.e., in a higher division than their points would allow) must submit a formal 
petition (see Petition section below ) or they will not receive points if they reach the final. The petition must be 
included with the WSDC re porting form by the Event Director.  
4) Skill points are recorded only for those who place in finals, according to the Points Award per Tier Chart.  
5) If a Competitor places twice in a division, the Competitor is only awarded points for the higher placement.  
6) A Competitor may be awarded points as either a leader or follower. All of a Competitor’s points at a specific skill 
level, whether awarded  as a leader or follower, count towards the total earned points needed to advance to the next 
skill level.  
7) For Events with combined divisions (e.g., Novice/Intermediate), points will be awarded to the lower of the two 
divisions.  
8) For Events that have different category names for their skill level divisions, WSDC may choose not to record them. 
Please refer to the WSDC Jack  and Jill Advancement Chart  for the list of WSDC skill level divisions . 
9) For Events that are held over the New Year’s holiday, points will be assigned to December of the outgoing year, not 
January of the incoming year (e.g., points would be awarded for December 2017, not January 2018) .  
 
RECORDING POINTS RESPONSIBILITIES   
The Event Director   
1. Is responsible for informing contestants of the Registry Points skill levels and points awards as defined by the 
WSDC.  
2. Must have a petition process in place for Competitors who wish to dance in a different skill division.  
3. Is responsible for reporting the results of Jack and Jill competitions to the WSDC within ten (10) days of their 
event.   
4. Must provide the WSDC with the number of contestants in each division, so the appropriate Tier level for recording 
points can be determined .  
5. Must transfer the Competitor Processing Surcharge to the WSDC. Points will not be recorded into the Points 
Registry until full results, petitions, and payment are received by the WSDC.    
The Competitor  
1. Is responsible for understanding the WSDC Points Registry Rules.  
2. Is responsible for using  their WSDC Competitor ID number when regist ering for Jack and Jill competitions at 
WSDC Registry Member Events.  
3. Is responsible for  registering for Jack and Jill competitions at the appropriate skill level (see WSDC Jack and Jill 
Advancement Chart ). 
4. Is responsible for submitting a formal petition to dance “up” or “down” (see Petition section below).  
5. Is responsible for correcting Competitor ID number errors , either at the event or with the WSDC (contact 
points@worldsdc.com ). 
 
PETITIONS  
A Competitor may submit a formal petition to the Event’s Chief Judge to dance at a different skill level than they qualify for 
in a Jack and Jill division. 
1. All Events will offer a petition process.  
2. Petitions can be submitted for one skill level up or one skill level down only.   
3. A committee, which includes the Chief Judge, will consider the requested reclassification  petition after reviewing 
the Competitor’s WSDC Point Registry record.   
4. Petitions are Event specific  and not transferable. Competitors may need to submit a new petition at the next Event.   
5. All petitions must be submitted by the Event Director with the WSDC reporting documentation. 
  
Note: For clarification on Registry Event requirements, please review WSDC Registry Event Rules / 
Requirements. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
 
WSDC Points Registry update, effective Jan 3, 2018            RPR Version 2018.1B 3 
 
WSDC Jack and Jill Advancement Chart
A	dancer	has	the	
option	to	move	up	as	
rapidly	as	their	desire	
and	their	skill	points	
allow.
Dancers	who	reach	these	point	
milestones	are	required	to	move	
up.	The	intent	of	this	flow	diagram	
is	to	encourage	excellent	dancers	
who	are	undecided	and	inform	
them	that	they	must	advance	to	
the	next	level.
Newcomer	Dancer
Novice	Dancer
Allowed	to	move	up	
with	16+	Novice	points
Required	to move	up	
with	30+	Novice	points
Intermediate Dancer
Allowed to	move	up	with	
30+ Intermediate	points
Required to	move	up	with	
45+ Intermediate	points
Advanced	Dancer
Allowed	to	move	up	with	45	
Advanced	points	accumulated	
within	36	Months
Required	to move	up	with	60	
Advanced	points	accumulated	
within	36	Months
All	Star	Dancer
Allowed	to	move	up	
based	on	event	criteria	set	
by	Event	Promoter
Newcomer
Novice
Intermediate
Advanced
All	Star
Champion
Skill	
Level
Champion	Dancer
Required	to enter	if	meets	
criteria	set	by	Event	
Promoter
Champion	points	are	tracked	in	
the	Points	Registry;	however,	
Champion	is	a	general	category	
that	is	set	by	promoters	for	
their	higher	skill	level	dancers	
in	attendance.	
Allowed Required
Intermediate	is	designed	to	
contain	the	most	dancers	
while	they	perfect	their	
social	and	competitive	
dance	skills.	
Novice	is	the	first	category	
that	all	dancers	must	pass	
through	to	demonstrate	
their	basic	dance	skills.
New	dancers	/	competitors	
should	check	event	rules.	
While	the	WSDC	requires	a	
new	dancer	to	start in	a	skill	
level	no	higher	than	Novice,	
some	events	make	the	
Newcomer	division	
mandatory	for	new	dancers.
Advanced	is	intended	to	be	
a	very	competitive	
category	where	a	dancer	
may	move	up	from
Intermediate	or	return	to	
from	All	Star.	
All	Star	is	intended	to	be	
extremely	competitive,	with	
constantly	evolving	and	
changing	skill	level,	and	
requiring	consistent		
placements	to	remain	in	
this	category.
WSDC	Notes
A	dancer	may	use	the	petition	
process	to	request	dancing	up	
or	down	one	level	in	a	
competition.	Dancers	and	
promoter	should	realize	the	
risks associated	with	granting	
petitions	up	or	down.
points	in	
the	last	
36 months	
to	stay	
in	All	
Star
10	
points
in	a	12	
month	
period	
to	move	
back to	
All	
Star	

===== PAGE 4 =====
WSDC Registry Event Rules and Requirements 1-1-2018 1 of 6 RERR Version 2018.1A 
   World Swing Dance Council           9151 Atlanta Ave., #7452 Huntington Beach, CA 92615   www.worldsdc.com   WSDC Registry Event Rules / Requirements  WSDC REGISTRY EVENTS WSDC Registry Events (“Registry Events”) are events organized and hosted by Professional Members of the WSDC and approved by the WSDC Board of Directors. WSDC Jack and Jill competitions at Registry Events will have their contest results tracked, and points awarded for placements will be included in the WSDC Points Registry.  The WSDC serves to promote, encourage and enhance swing dancing on a national and world level. The WSDC respects the interests of both new and existing members of the entire swing dance community. The Registry Event rules and requirements have been developed to ensure consistency and fairness for competitors among Registry Events. Given the continued growth of swing dancing and events, the rules continue to evolve and are subject to change.  The information below provides guidance on the requirements for obtaining, maintaining, and holding a Registry Event. Please note that violations may result in fines and/or loss of Registry Event status.   Note: Please review WSDC Points Registry Rules for additional information on WSDC Jack and Jill divisions, points awarded, and tiers.   PROMOTING ENTITY REQUIREMENTS FOR REGISTRY EVENTS Promoting entities (e.g., Event Owner, Event Director) must demonstrate that their event is viable and of sufficient size and scope to warrant WSDC Registry Event status. Promoting entities must have an approved WSDC Non-Registry Event prior to applying for status as a Registry Event.   MAINTAINING A REGISTRY EVENT: Existing Members of Registry Events must remain in good standing by completing the following: 1. Follow WSDC Registry Event Rules and Requirements. 2. Be current with WSDC annual membership dues (see Membership Dues and Requirements).   3. Submit competition results and Competition Processing Surcharge in timely manner (see Competition Results Reporting and Competitor Processing Surcharge).  Any Member whose event loses Registry Event status must reapply and receive Registry Event approval, starting with Non-Registry Event approval (see Registry Event Approval Process).  ADDING A REGISTRY EVENT: Existing Members who wish to add a Registry Event must meet all the requirements for hosting a Registry Event listed under New Members (see below).   Existing Members with current Registry Event(s) who wish to add an additional Registry Event must also meet the following requirements prior to applying for an additional event: 1. All of the Member’s existing events must have a minimum of two (2) years of history as Registry Events in good standing. 2. All of the Member’s existing events must have a minimum of three (3) WSDC Jack and Jill divisions with at least 120 WSDC Jack and Jill competitors.    


===== PAGE 5 =====
WSDC Registry Event Rules and Requirements 1-1-2018 2 of 6 RERR Version 2018.1A 
New Members wishing to host a Registry Event must meet the following requirements: 1. Receive approval from the WSDC Board for a preliminary event as a Non-Registry Event (see Non-Registry Approval Process).  2. Run the event following all of the WSDC Registry Event Rules (see Registry Event Structure and Competition Rules & Requirements). 3. Receive approval from the WSDC Board for Registry Event status (see Registry Event Application Process). 4. Join the WSDC as a Professional Member.  REGISTRY EVENT APPROVAL PROCESS: Non-Registry Event Approval Process  1. Submit New Event application with New Event application fee ($50) to the WSDC Board a minimum of 45 days prior to the Non-Registry Event. (Note: application fee will be credited to Professional Membership dues, if event is accepted as Registry Event.) 2. Application must include the following information: a. Event criteria (proposed): Promoter / Member / Owner(s), event name, date, location (city, country), format, competition divisions, and staff (including Chief Judge). b. A list of any potential conflicts of interest with existing Registry Events. Applicant shall review WSDC Events Calendar to identify any existing Registry Event(s) that will occur within four (4) weeks of the proposed event date and within a 400 mile (640 km) radius of the proposed event location. 3. The WSDC Board will review the New Event application.  a. Events are approved based on the proposed event criteria provided. If approved, the Non-Registry Event will be published as a Non-Registry / Other Event on the WSDC Events Calendar.  To be eligible for Registry Event status, the Non-Registry Event must maintain the same event criteria throughout the Non-Registry “year of history.” Registry Event applications may be denied if any of the event criteria change during the Non-Registry year of history. If denied due to a change in event criteria, events shall require another year of history to demonstrate the event’s new criteria are viable for Registry Event consideration.   Registry Event Application Process 4. Within ten (10) days after the close of the Non-Registry Event, the Member must submit the following: a. Registry Event application.  b. Completed WSDC Contest Reporting form.  c. List of competitors, preliminary and final contest scores, and contest tabulation sheets. This information will be reviewed by the WSDC for verification of unique competitors, proper placement of skill levels, and proper scoring.   5. The WSDC Board will review the Registry Event application and supporting documents. a. If approved as a Registry Event, the Member must join the WSDC as a Professional Member (see Membership Dues and Requirements). The Member must comply with all Membership and Registry Event rules and requirements on an ongoing basis to remain a Member in good standing. b. The WSDC will list the event as a Registry Event on the WSDC Events Calendar.  CHANGING AN EXISTING REGISTRY EVENT: Changes in ownership, event name, location, and/or date of a Registry Event are subject to the approval of the WSDC Board. Prior to a proposed change, the Member shall: 1. Notify the WSDC Board and membership of the proposed change(s) six (6) months prior to the Event.  2. Provide a list of any potential conflicts of interest with existing Registry Events, by reviewing WSDC Events Calendar to identify any existing Registry Event(s) that will occur within four (4) weeks of the proposed event date and within a 400 mile (640 km) radius of the proposed event location.  TEMPORARILY CANCELING AN EXISTING REGISTRY EVENT:  Registry Events are allowed a one (1) year break without losing their Registry Event status. The break may be a cancellation of the current or upcoming year. The one year break is automatically allowed if the following criteria are met: 1. Members notify the WSDC Board that their Registry Event is canceled for the current year or “On Hiatus” for the following year.  2. Members maintain continuous paid Professional Membership in the WSDC during the break (e.g., Members receive no full or partial refunds for canceled event, Members pay membership fees while “on hiatus”).   

===== PAGE 6 =====
WSDC Registry Event Rules and Requirements 1-1-2018 3 of 6 RERR Version 2018.1A 
The event will continue to be listed on the WSDC Events Calendar with a note “Cancelled for <year>,” “Postponed until <year>,” or “On Hiatus for <year>,” as appropriate. Events on break will keep their date and location on the Registry Events Calendar (for assessing potential new event conflicts). If no event is held in the year following the break (i.e., the event is not held for two (2) consecutive years), the event will lose its Registry Event status. Members would need to reapply for Registry Event approval (see Registry Event Approval Process).   MEMBERSHIP DUES AND REQUIREMENTS All Members shall agree to the following: 1. Pay annual Professional Membership dues as established by the WSDC. Membership fees include the right to host and organize one (1) Registry Event (primary event). a. Initial membership application fee: $200 b. Membership renewal fee: $200 annually. Renewal fees are due after a Member’s primary event.   c. Fee for additional Registry Events (secondary events): $100 upon approval as Registry Event and $100 annually for each secondary event, due after the close of each secondary event. Note: secondary events must be approved by the WSDC Board (see Adding a Registry Event / Existing Members). 2. Conduct their Registry Event(s), contests and business functions in an ethical manner; provide fair, unbiased and untampered competitions, judging and scoring; and meet their financial obligations and stated rules / policies. 3. Acknowledge that any membership (e.g., new applications, event changes, renewals, new event ownership entities, reinstatements) shall be at the discretion of the WSDC Board. The WSDC Board reserves the right to deny any memberships and any additional events.     COMPETITION RESULTS REPORTING Members of Registry Events must report results for all competitors in WSDC Jack and Jill competitions to the WSDC. Results shall be submitted on the form / format provided by the WSDC and include competitors’ WSDC Competitor ID numbers (if assigned) from the WSDC Points Registry. The Event Director and/or Chief Judge shall verify the contest results and the number of contestants.   The competition results, along with the Competitor Processing Surcharge (see below), are due to the WSDC within ten (10) calendar days after the close of the Registry Event. Submission of results within a timely manner is required out of respect for your competitors and to be in compliance, so the WSDC can provide the most current Points Registry to upcoming events. Competition results and points awarded will be recorded only upon receipt of both the results and Competitor Processing Surcharge. Late fees and/or additional penalties may be assessed if the competition results and Surcharge are not submitted in a timely manner (see Late Fee Charges Chart).    COMPETITOR PROCESSING SURCHARGE Members of Registry Events must provide a Competitor Processing Surcharge to the WSDC for all competitors entering WSDC Jack and Jill competitions. The Surcharge is $1 per competitor. The Surcharge may be included as part of or added separately to the event’s Jack and Jill entry fee.   The Surcharge, along with the competition results (see above), is due to the WSDC within ten (10) calendar days after the close of the Registry Event. Late fees and/or additional penalties may be assessed if the competition results and Surcharge are not submitted in a timely manner (see Late Fee Charges Chart).    LATE FEE CHARGES CHART Date Submitted  Late Fee (in addition to Competitor Processing Surcharge) 31-60 days $25 61-90 days $50 91-120 days $75 >120 days Default*   

===== PAGE 7 =====
WSDC Registry Event Rules and Requirements 1-1-2018 4 of 6 RERR Version 2018.1A 
* Members of Registry Events will be in default if their WSDC Jack and Jill competition results and Surcharge are not submitted within 120 days after the Registry Event has closed. Default includes the following: 1. Event results will NOT be recorded in Points Registry. 2. Event will lose its Registry Event status. Event may be listed as a Non-Registry/Other Events on the WSDC Events Calendar at the WSDC Board’s discretion. 3. Event will be subject to all eligibility requirements, including a new Non-Registry year of history, for re-application as a Registry Event.   REGISTRY EVENT STRUCTURE Registry Events must comply with the following event structure, unless otherwise approved by the WSDC Board: 1. Registry Events must have a minimum of three (3) days of swing dance activities / functions (e.g., social dancing, lessons, workshops, contests). 2. Registry Events must be open to any dancer (national / international). Restricted or closed city, state or regional events are not eligible. 3. Registry events must be held in a hotel with ballroom and guest rooms available, unless otherwise approved by the WSDC Board. 4. Registry Events must offer a minimum of two (2) WSDC Jack and Jills at Tier 1 size with a minimum of sixty (60) unique WSDC Jack and Jill competitors (see WSDC Points Registry Rules document for additional information).   a. If the event has less than 60 unique competitors, the competition results will be posted and the appropriate Registry Points awarded, but the event will lose its Registry Event status.   b. The event may submit a petition to the WSDC Board to maintain its Registry Event status and receive a one (1) year probation to increase its competitor numbers above the required minimum.   c. If the event has less than 60 unique competitors after the probation year’s event, the event will not be renewed as a Registry Event. The probation year’s event results would be posted and appropriate Registry Points awarded. The event may continue as a Non-Registry Event and the Member can reapply for Registry Event approval (see Registry Event Approval Process). 5. Registry Events must occur annually and maintain the same date and location. Changes in ownership, event name, location, and/or date must be approved by the WSDC Board (see Changing an Existing Registry Event). The following are exceptions that do not require WSDC Board approval: a. A one (1) week change before or after an event’s traditional weekend. Events are associated with a specific date or holiday may be held either the weekend before or after that specific date / holiday.  b. A change from one city to another city in the same metropolitan area (and within a reasonable distance) will not be considered a change in location.     COMPETITION RULES & REQUIREMENTS Note: For the purposes of this section, Event Director and Owner are defined as follows:  • Event Director is any person(s) involved in a strategic planning or decision-making role related to the hiring of the judging and scoring staff. • Owner is any person(s) with >20% ownership in the event.  Registry Events must follow all contest, event staff and scoring requirements outlined below, unless otherwise approved by the WSDC Board.  CONTEST STRUCTURE / FORMAT REQUIREMENTS: 1. Each Registry Event may offer only one (1) Jack and Jill competition for each skill level or age-based contest. Each Registry Event must offer a minimum of two (2) WSDC Jack and Jill divisions. 2. Each competitor may enter only one (1) WSDC Jack and Jill and only one (1) age-based Jack and Jill contest. 3. Each competitor may enter either as a Leader or Follower at their WSDC skill level at Registry Events that allow this option or as traditional Male/Leader or Female/Follower roles at Registry Events that maintain traditional roles. 4. Events must use the Points Registry to determine competitors’ appropriate skill levels. Competitors wishing to dance in a different division must receive formal approval through the petitioning process (see WSDC Points Registry Rules section on Petitions). 5. Events may not artificially balance their competitions (i.e., make their Leader and Follower numbers the same in a division). Unacceptable examples include, but are not limited to, shifting competitors from one division to another, 

===== PAGE 8 =====
WSDC Registry Event Rules and Requirements 1-1-2018 5 of 6 RERR Version 2018.1A 
changing / combining divisions, adding “walk-on” competitors (e.g., audience members who did not sign up in advance), and adding stand-in dancers. 6. The integrity of random and unbiased selection must be maintained.  a. Rotations (e.g., in preliminary heats) shall be determined at random (e.g., roll of dice, drawing of number cards, random number generator).  b. Determining which dancers dance more than once (e.g., in uneven preliminary heats) shall be random.   c. The pairing of partners in the finals and determining the order of dance shall be random (e.g., drawing dance partner names and/or dance order “on the floor”, random computer function). 7. Posting of results shall be open to all competitors for a predetermined, limited time period. This period shall be monitored.    EVENT STAFF AND SCORING REQUIREMENTS: 8. Chief Judge and Scoring / Tabulations functions and duties must be provided by separate individuals. 9. The Event Director and/or Owner must not perform Chief Judge, Judge or Scoring functions or duties. 10. The Event Director, Owner, Chief Judge, and Score person must not compete in any swing contests at the event, with the following exceptions: a. Any contest of a different dance genre and/or sponsored and run by a separate organization. Exceptions must be authorized by the WSDC Board prior to the event. b. For Chief Judge and Score person only: Exhibitions and “just for fun” contests with audience applause, audience votes or random audience judges. The Chief Judge may participate if not administering / overseeing the contest. The Score person may participate if not tabulating and reviewing scores for the contest.  11. Judges for contests must meet the following standards: a. A minimum of five (5) judges (plus Chief Judge) are required for finals contests. An even number of judges shall not be used. The WSDC recommends Registry Events use seven (7) judges for finals.   b. A minimum of six (6) judges (plus Chief Judge) are required for preliminary Jack and Jill contests. A minimum of three (3) judges shall be assigned to each role. The WSDC recommends Registry Events use four to five (4-5) judges per role in preliminary contests. The following exception is allowed: • For preliminary contests where both roles have fifteen (15) or fewer contestants, events may use three to five (3-5) judges but judges must judge both roles.  c. The Chief Judge may join the general judging panel only if there is an unforeseen / unavoidable shortage of general judges. d. Self-judging contests are allowed only in the Champions division. Self-judging in Champions should occur only if there is an insufficient number of available judges.  12. Judges must make decisions independently and scores must be properly compiled, tabulated and reviewed. a. Group judging decisions (whether “on the floor” or “in the back room”), “tap out” eliminations during the contest (by an individual judge or as a group), or instantaneous (“on the floor”) decisions / awards are not permitted. 13. All real and/or perceived biases must be identified and avoided. All issues of bias or conflict (e.g., positive / negative favoritism, family / spouse / partners, business partners) between any judge and competitors should be submitted to the Chief Judge and/or Event Director. Judging assignments should be made to avoid potential conflicts.  14. Contests must use the Callback System for preliminary contests and Relative Placement scoring system for finals.  15. All scoring shall be computerized and tabulated by someone thoroughly trained and knowledgeable in the Callback and Relative Placement scoring systems. A computerized scoring system should be capable of doing the following tasks: a. Place competitors within the various divisions and contests. b. Randomly assign competitors to heats in preliminary rounds. c. Create preliminary and finals contest judging sheets with information pre-populated. d. Tabulate and rank call-backs. e. Create call-back announcement sheets. f. Transfer contestants to finals. g. Randomly assign partners (if needed). h. Place paired competitors in random dance order or place competitors in numerical order for “draw for dance order,” as needed.  i. Tabulate and rank finals contests for placement results.  j. Provide results / announcement / posting sheets.     

===== PAGE 9 =====
WSDC Registry Event Rules and Requirements 1-1-2018 6 of 6 RERR Version 2018.1A 
ADDITIONAL EVENT AND COMPETITION RECOMMENDATIONS The WSDC makes the following contest recommendations for Registry Events (note: these are not requirements to maintain Registry Event status, but highly recommended):  1. If an event has multiple partner competitions, the WSDC recommends that competitors have different partners for each partner competition.  2. If a partnership consists of competitors of different skill levels, the WSDC recommends that the couple compete at the higher skill level.  3. The WSDC recommends events avoid combining skill level divisions if at all possible.   4. The WSDC recommends separate Junior contests. With the exception of Junior contests, the WSDC recommends that contests be limited to adults (defined as 18 years or older by the event’s close).  5. The WSDC recommends Registry Events use four to five (4-5) judges per role in preliminary contests and seven (7) judges for finals.  6. The WSDC recommends that posting of results should include the following: a. Judges should be referred to by designations, with a separate list linking the designations with the judges’ names. b. Posted Callbacks should include only competitors with a minimum of one (1) callback or one (1) alternate. c. Posted Finals should include only the top ten to twelve (10-12) placements.  The WSDC also recommends that all events have a Sexual Awareness policy. A suggested policy is available on the WSDC website.  Registry Event rules are enforced by the WSDC Board. Unless otherwise approved, any WSDC Professional Member or Registry Event that does not comply with the WSDC Registry Event Rules and Requirements will be considered in default of their membership and subject to penalties and/or loss of Registry Event status. Members in default may reapply for WSDC membership, subject to approval by the WSDC Board of Directors. The WSDC reserves the right to revise / add / delete rules, add Registry Events, and assign penalties and violations at its discretion.   WSDC PENALTIES FOR REGISTRY EVENT RULES VIOLATIONS (effective March 2017) 
Penalty Level Fine Level of Responsibility Guidance 
Penalty Level 1 $0 Unknowing The event, promoter or associated person(s) did not know and reasonably should not have known of the violation. 
Penalty Level 2 $100-500,  Possible probation Reasonable Cause The event, promoter or associated person(s) knew or, by exercising reasonable diligence, should have known that the act or omission was a violation. Penalty Level 3 $500-750  and Probation Neglect The violation was the result of failure or reckless indifference to follow WSDC Registry Event rules. 
Penalty Level 4 $750-1000  and Probation Disregard The violation was the result of conscious, intentional failure or reckless indifference to follow WSDC Registry Event rules. 
Penalty Level 5 Revocation of Registry Event status Intentional The violation was the result of purposeful intent or indifference to WSDC Registry Event rules.      Note: This document has continued to evolve from an original document dated January 1, 2007. Previous updated versions of the WSDC Registry Event Rules are dated 1-1-2009, 1-1-2010, 9-1-2010, 1-1-2012, and 7-1-2015. The current version is dated 1-1-2018. 