===== PAGE 1 =====
 
Page 1 of 2 pages 
W O R L D  S W I N G  D A N C E  C O U N C I L 
 
 
Registry Rules May 2021 
Addendum to               
www.worldsdc.com  
 
 
Non-dominant Role Competing and Tracking  
 
Based on the input from our dance community, in February 2021, the WSDC Board announced that competitors 
would be allowed to compete as both Leaders and Followers in skill level Jack & Jills at any given event 
(previously, competitors had to choose to compete in only one role for the skill level J&J for that event).  
 
Here are details on how it works:  
• Leader and Follower points will be tracked separately in Points Registry.  
• Competitors qualify for their dance level based on either their Leader or Follower points, whichever is   
higher. 
• Competitors are allowed to compete in their non-dominant role one level down, as long as they don’t qualify 
in both for the same division. No petitions will be approved for dancing more than one level down. 
• Competitors will not be permitted to dance both roles in the same division.  
 
Current competitors whose combined points as both a Leader and Follower would have moved them into a    
higher skill level will be offered a one-time option (to be “grandfathered” into the higher level). 
 
Competitors – please contact us at points@worldsdc.com if any points are/were incorrectly allocated to the 
wrong role in the system. 
 
The WSDC Board is updating our Points Registry database to reflect a competitor ’s dominant role level (“Dance 
Level”). To keep it simple for contest registration, we will also reflect a competitor ’s eligibility in their           
non-dominant role.  
 
This rule is not mandatory for events. Events may allow competitors to dance in both roles or limit competitors 
to one role only.  
 
Examples:  
• Chris has 5 Int points as a Leader; 1 Nov point as a Follower. Chris may dance in Int as a Leader and in Nov 
as a Follower. 
• Alex has 20 Adv points as a Follower; 0 points as a Leader. Alex may dance in Adv as a Follower and in Int 
as a Leader (one level down). 
•  Jordan has 10 Adv points as a Leader and 10 Adv points as a Follower. Jordan may dance in Adv as either a 
Leader or Follower, but not both. Jordan may not petition to dance in Int in either role.  
 
• Taylor has 30 Int points as a Follower and 16 Int points as a Leader. Previously, Taylor would have been 
required to dance Adv with a 46 combined point total. Taylor will make a one-time choice whether to dance  
in Adv as a Follower going forward or to remain in Intermediate for both roles.  
 
Virtual judging is not allowed 
During this pandemic, we have been advised that some Jack and Jill competitions were judged virtually. To     
clarify, this option is not allowed by the WSDC. Virtual judges cannot replace in -person judging – this can    
impact the integrity of the contest.  
 
No New Trial Events will be approved in 2021 

===== PAGE 2 =====
 
Page 2 of 2 pages 
Continued “freeze” on Advanced / All Star 3 year window for points 
 
Competitors will continue to be awarded points, but no competitors will be penalized for not having the          
opportunity to compete due to Covid-19. We will continue to leave this window open for the foreseeable future.  
 
Registry Events must meet certain minimum standards and requirements to maintain the integrity of the event 
(e.g., size, staff, judging process, contests, venue). The WSDC Board is the governing body for WSDC Registry 
Events and administers the Points Registry for competitor Jack and Jill points.  
 
Lower Competitor Requirements for 2021 
 
In early 2020, the WSDC Board announced the required number of competitors would increase to 80. To         
encourage the safe and slow re-entry of dance events, the WSDC Board is lowering that number for 2021.   
• For 2021 only, WSDC will require 60 unique competitors. These can include both skill level and age-based 
competitors. 
• Registry Events will need to submit their full roster of competitors with their reporting form.  
 
Venue flexibility for Registry Events 
Over the past several years, the WSDC Board has discussed the option to expand approved venues for  Events 
from hotels to “other venues”. For the past year, since our January 2020 Board meeting, we have spent time   
researching our current Events' venues and listening to our membership's concerns and recommendations to   
develop our new guidance. Exceptions to holding Registry Events in hotels will still need Board review and ap-
proval – especially this year.  
 
We wanted to give our Event Directors more flexibility with location and costs, while maintaining the brand and 
integrity of a WSDC Registry Event.  
 
Below are our requirements for an acceptable alternate venue:  
• The venue must be special – with either architectural style or character “above and beyond” (e.g., castle,  
stadium / sports facility, performing arts / cultural centers). Dance studios and warehouse-type facilities are 
not acceptable and will not be approved.  
• The venue must have enough dance floor and space for attendees. The following are minimum requirements: 
 Ballroom must accommodate a minimum of 150 occupants (as defined by local building codes)  
 Ballroom must have a minimum dance floor of 2000 sq ft / 186 sq meters 
 Venue must provide full service (food) and/or options must be available nearby.  We strongly    
recommend our Event Directors provide information on nearby hotels and available transportation 
on their website /Facebook. 
 
Over the years, the WSDC has held the U.S. to the hotel-only standard because they are readily available 
(exceptions are a handful of grandfathered events). Outside of the U.S., we have been flexible in markets (cities/
countries) that do not have access to appropriate hotels, and have worked closely with the EDs on these        
choices.  The markets that do have multiple hotels, we have held them to the same standard as the U.S.   We are 
now opening this flexibility of non-hotel locations to all events in the world.   
 
We are not stating you must be in a hotel (although it’s preferred when possible for a variety of  reasons), but we 
continue to say no to a dance studio.  Studios present a conflict of interest.  This is similar to the conflict of     
interest you would see if an Event Director were to be allowed to judge or compete at their own event. If the    
studio owner is the ED or is affiliated with the event  director, there is an appearance of influence on judging or  
other aspects of the event.  Studios do not provide a neutral setting for the entire community to be welcomed and 
encouraged to attend.  Hotels and other venues, though not perfect, help to lessen the fractions in different     
communities and allow different instructors that don’t get along personally to come to a neutral place to compete 
and to socialize.  Hotels also provide more "safety" since everything is contained in one space. Studios are where 
you have your weekly and monthly dances.  A Registry Event is designed to be a special  experience at a        
different place that draws interstate and/or international competitors from around the world.  
W O R L D  S W I N G  D A N C E  C O U N C I L 
 
 
 