===== PAGE 1 =====
 
1                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
2026 WSDC Registry Event Rules 
Overview 
WSDC 
The World Swing Dance Council (WSDC) is a non -profit organization focused on 
promoting and growing West Coast swing (WCS) dance at the global level. Its mission is 
“To inspire a global passion for west coast swing and guide community growth through 
supporting events, dancers, and competitors with fairness, integrity, and respect.” 
The WSDC respects the interests of both new and existing members of the entire West 
Coast swing dance community. As a governing body of WSDC Registry Events (“Registry 
Events”), the WSDC Board of Directors (“Board”) has developed these Registry Event 
rules to ensure integrity, consistency and fairness at Registry Events. 
Registry Events 
Registry Events are swing dance events organized and hosted by Professional Members 
(“Members”) of the WSDC and approved by its Board. Registry Events must meet 
standards set by the WSDC Board, demonstrating integrity and the highest ethical 
standards; sufficient event size, scope, and structure; and financial viability and stability. 
Registry Events offer a mix of social dancing, instruction and competition, bringing 
together local, regional, national and international dancers. 
WSDC Registry Event Rules govern the integrity of the West Coast Swing contests at the 
entire Registry Event, not just WSDC Jack and Jill contests. All Registry Events must hold 
WSDC Jack and Jill contests. The WSDC tracks the contest results for WSDC Jack and 
Jill competitions at Registry Events; points awarded for placements are included in the 
WSDC Points Registry. 
Points Registry 
The WSDC Points Registry was developed and is maintained by the WSDC. The Points 
Registry is the official record used to track individual competitors’ results in WSDC Jack 
and Jill competitions at Registry Events. The Points Registry is used to determine a  
competitor’s appropriate skill level for WSDC Jack and Jill competitions. The Points 
Registry tracks the following skill -level and age- based categories: Newcomer, Novice, 
Intermediate, Advanced, All Star, Champions; and Juniors, Sophisticated, and Masters , 
respectively. 
Competitors who have earned at least one WSDC Jack and Jill competition point are 
assigned a unique WSDC Competitor ID number in the Points Registry. 
Definitions 

===== PAGE 2 =====
 
2                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
Event Director(s) and/or Owner(s): 
1. Event Director(s) is any person involved in decision-making related to the hiring of 
judges and/or scoring staff and/or identified as the Event Director. 
2. Owner(s) is any person with a vested financial / ownership interest (e.g., 
shareholder) in the event. 
3. Non-profit shareholders or Board members are not considered Owners but may 
fall under Event Director restrictions, depending on their role. 
Venue: Registry Events must be held in an approved venue that meets the following 
minimum requirements: 
1. Competition dance floors must be a minimum of 150 sq meters (1600 sq ft) and 
must be suitable for dancing (note: concrete, marble/stone, etc., are not 
acceptable).  Recommended competition dance floors: Sprung dance floor.  A 
multi-layered floor – flexible hardwood top over a shock-absorbing subfloor. 
2. Recommended accommodations must be available within a 10-minute walk or the 
event must provide a shuttle that goes to/from the accommodations suggested by 
the event. If the latter, shuttles must run until the end of social dancing and are of 
sufficient frequency and capacity needed. 
3. Venue must provide full service (food and drink) and/or options must be available 
nearby. 
4. Studios that meet the above requirements must be approved and have additional 
restrictions as follows: 
a. A maximum of two (2) Registry Events may be held in the same studio per 
calendar year.
 
b. A studio owner who is also the Event Owner / Event Director may hold a 
maximum of one (1) Registry Event in their studio.
 
Time / Distance Rule: Global Rule:  If the proposed event change (i.e., Trial Event or 
change to existing Registry Event) is  within 200 miles (322 km)  driving distance of an 
existing Registry Event(s), then the proposed change and existing Registry Event(s) must 
be five (5) weekends apart (i.e., the events must have four (4) weekends between them). 
The following exceptions to the Time / Distance Rule may be allowed with Trial Events. All 
exceptions listed below will require approval by the Board.
[1] 
1. Country-specific rule: The first / only event that is located in a specific country. A 
majority of the Owner(s) / Event Director(s) must be resident(s) of the country. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
 
3                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
2. Exceptional extenuating circumstances: The Board reserves the right to approve 
Time / Distance Rule conflicts as part of our mission and vision (“focused on 
promoting and growing swing dance”). Examples are extenuating circumstances, 
hardship, or local market conditions that warrant approval of an exception. 
Designated WSDC Growth Region: Designated WSDC growth regions as of 2025: Asia, 
Australia/New Zealand, South America/Central America, Africa,  and USA: Alaska, and 
Hawaii. Additional countries / regions may be added upon request and agreement by the 
Board.  
Age-based Contests: Juniors are defined as those younger than 18 years of age by close 
of the event.  Sophisticated are defined as 35 years of age or older by the close  of the 
event.  Masters are defined as 50 years of age or older by the close of the event. 
Chief Judge: The Chief Judge is responsible for the oversight of the event’s contests and 
for ensuring the integrity of every contest.  A Chief Judge must have extensive judging 
experience with a proven record of competency, and cannot compete. Only individuals 
who have previously served as a judge at multiple registry events and demonstrated 
proficiency in all aspects of judging may be appointed as Chief Judge.  
ef Judge in one or more contests. The Secondary Chief Judge is subject to the same 
rules and restrictions as the Chief Judge. Secondary Chief Judge may not compete.  
Raw Score Judge: A Raw Score Judge is a separate judge, not part of a contest’s judging 
panel. A Raw Score Judge may be used in a contest (or multiple contests), to raw score 
one role. The Raw Score Judge must assign each competitor a unique numerical raw 
score. The Raw Score Judge does not have access to scores and does not determine 
heats / number of callbacks / cuts to finals / any other contest structure decisions;  those 
duties must be performed by the Chief Judge (or Secondary Chief Judge). The Raw Score 
Judge is allowed to compete in other contests. 
Primary and Secondary Roles: For the purpose of these rules, a competitor’s primary and 
secondary roles are based on the number of points in the WSDC Skill Level Jack and Jill 
Advancement Chart. The primary role is the one in which they have points at a higher 
skill level or, if they have points in both roles at their highest skill level, the one in which 
they have more points. The secondary role is the one in which they have points only at a 
lower skill level or, if they have points in both roles at their highest skill division, the one 
in which they have fewer points
. 
Section 1: Registry Events Structure and Ownership 
The following section outlines the minimum standards and requirements for Registry 
Events. 
Membership and Registry Event approval / denial, rule changes, and penalties shall be 
at the discretion of the Board. 

===== PAGE 4 =====
 
4                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
1.1. Professional Membership 
All Registry Events must be owned by Professional Members of the WSDC. Members 
may be individuals, groups, clubs (e.g., swing dance clubs), or organizations. Members 
must remain in good standing by completing the following: 
1. Follow WSDC Registry Event Rules. 
2. Be current with WSDC annual membership dues. 
3. Conduct their Registry Event(s), contests and business functions in an ethical 
manner. 
4. Submit their Registry Event Update Form annually – within forty-five (45) days after 
the close of the event – to be listed as a confirmed Event on the WSDC Events 
calendar.  
5. Meet their financial obligations no later than forty-five (45) days after the last day 
of their event.  
6. Provide fair, unbiased and untampered competitions, judging and scoring.  
7. Enforce their stated rules, policies and code of conduct.  
8. Submit competition results and Competitor Surcharge in a timely manner. 
9. Post Event Rules (including minimal age if it applies), Code of Conduct, and 
Tentative Schedule on their website (90 days before the event) 
10. Be compliant with the WSDC Code of Conduct; reflect the WSDC mission, values 
and brand; and be a member in good standing in the swing dance community. This 
applies to both Event Owner(s) and Event Director(s). 
Loss of Registry Event status requires a one (1) calendar year waiting period before the 
Member(s) can submit an application for a Trial Event.  
1.2. Registry Event Structure 
Registry Events must occur annually and maintain the same date and location, and 
comply with the following event structure, unless otherwise approved by the Board: 
1. Registry Events must have a minimum of three (3) days of west coast swing dance 
activities (e.g., social dancing, lessons, workshops, competitions). 
2. Restricted or closed city, state, regional events are not eligible. 
3. Registry Events must be held in an approved venue. 

===== PAGE 5 =====
 
5                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
4. Registry Events must publish their contest rules  on their website before contest 
registration opens.  
5. All events must implement a Code of Conduct policy  and post it on their website, 
with appropriate plans for reporting and implementation 90 days before the start of 
the event . Sample policies are linked from the Code of Conduct section under 
Rules & Info on the WSDC website. 
6. Registry Events must offer a minimum of two (2) skill level WSDC Jack and Jill 
contests and have a minimum of  one hundred fifty (150)  competitor entries in 
WSDC Jack and Jill contests . Jack & Jill  Contest entries include all WSDC skill- 
and age- based contests. Individuals competing in multiple contests  count per 
contest, not per person. 
a. Growth Region. Exception: E ighty (80) WSDC Jack and Jill competitor 
entries are required and one hundred (100) attendees.  
b. If the event has fewer than the required minimum,  competition results will 
be posted and Registry Points awarded but t he Registry Event will be 
placed on probation for one (1) year.  
c. During the probation year, if the event has fewer than the required minimum, 
competition results will be posted and the event will lose its Registry Event 
status.   
1.3. Trial Events and New Registry Events 
Event Owners / Event Directors must demonstrate that their event is viable and of 
sufficient size and scope to warrant Registry Event status. An approved preliminary event 
(“Trial Event”) must be held prior to applying for Registry Event status. 
New or Existing Members  who wish to hold a Registry Event must meet the following 
requirements: 
1. Submit Trial Event application and application fee ($100) a minimum of six (6) 
months prior to Trial Event. Application must include all required event criteria, 
including, but not limited to the following: Event Owner(s), Event Director(s), name, 
date, location, venue, format, competition divisions, staff, and potential conflicts as 
defined according to the Time / Distance Rule (see Definitions: Venue and Time / 
Distance Rule) 
2. Receive approval from the Board for a Trial Event, and submit request to list event 
on WSDC website. 
3. Run the Trial Event, following all WSDC Registry Event Rules. 
a. Trial Events must use a WSDC Certified Chief Judge
[2]. 
b. Trial events must use a WSDC approved Scoring System. 

===== PAGE 6 =====
 
6                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
c. Trial events must use a minimum of ten (10) judges, not including the 
Certified Chief Judge. 
4. S ubmit WSDC Event Reporting form and all competition and scoring reports (e.g., 
list of competitors, preliminary and final contest scores, contest tabulation sheets, 
petitions) for verification within three (3) days of close of the Trial Event. 
a. Points will be awarded to competitors during the Trial Event. 
b. Trial Events must also submit the Competitor Surcharge fee 
5. WSDC Board will review the Trial Event results for Registry Event approval.  Trial 
Events may receive one of the following designations: 
a. Approval as a Registry Event in full (i.e., no restrictions); 
b. Approval on probation (see Action Plan requirements under or; 
c. Denial, due to any event change during the Trial Event and/or failure to meet 
all Registry Event rules during the Trial Event. If denied, a second Trial 
Event may be permitted. 
6. Approved Events must submit the annual Membership fee. Event must also submit 
Registry Event Update Form annually to be listed as a confirmed Registry Event 
on the WSDC Event calendar. 
7. Become a WSDC Professional Member Be compliant with the WSDC Code of 
Conduct; reflect the WSDC mission, values and brand; and be a member in good 
standing in the swing dance community. This applies to both Event Owner(s) and 
Event Director(s). 
Existing Members with current Registry Event(s)  who wish to apply for a Trial Event 
must also meet the following requirements: 
1. All of the Member’s existing events must have a minimum of two (2) years of history 
as Registry Events in good standing.  Members may not hold two (2) Trial Events 
at the same time.  
2. All of the Member’s existing events must have a minimum of three (3) WSDC skill 
level Jack and Jill divisions, and demonstrate a history of excellence.  
1.4. Existing Registry Event Changes: 
Members are required to notify the Board of proposed change(s) six (6) months prior to 
Registry Events . Changes are subject to the written approval by  the Board. Multiple 
changes may not be approved. Changes not approved may result in probation or loss of 
Registry Status.  Changes requiring approval include: 
1. New location 

===== PAGE 7 =====
 
7                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
a. Exception: An Event  in a hotel  may make a change from one location to 
another in the same metropolitan area without Board approval , if the new 
venue remains a hotel. 
2. New date 
a. An Event may make a one (1) week change before / after an event’s official 
weekend without Board approval.  
i. Registry Events associated with a specific date / holiday must occur on the 
weekend either before or after that specific date / holiday. 
b. An Event may request a one-time date change, subject to Board approval. When 
a one-time date change is approved, an Event is required to return to its official 
date (plus or minus one week) for a minimum of two years. 
c.  An Event may request a change to their official date, subject to Board approval 
and the Time/Distance rule. 
3. New event name 
4. New Venue Type  
5. Transfer of ownership 
a. During the first two (2) years of running an event as a Registry Event, the 
original Owner(s) must retain at least 50% ownership or WSDC status will 
not transfer to the new Owners and will not be approved.  
1.5. Registry Event Hiatus: 
Registry Events are permitted a one (1) year break without jeopardizing their Registry 
Event status. Hiatus may be a cancellation of the current or upcoming year. The event 
may be listed on the WSDC Events Calendar with a note that the event is on hiatus. 
Registry Events on hiatus will keep their official date and location on the WSDC Events 
Calendar for assessing Time / Distance Rule conflicts.  
A one (1) year break is automatically allowed by the Board if the following criteria are met: 
1. Members notify the Board that their Registry Event is on hiatus  in writing six (6) 
months in advance.  
a. Failure to provide notification in the required time frame may result in the 
Hiatus not being granted, or loss of Registry Event status. 
2. Members maintain their WSDC Professional Membership during the hiatus (i.e., 
Members pay their membership fee). Members will receive no partial or full refunds 
for a canceled event. 

===== PAGE 8 =====
 
8                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
3. Exception: New Registry Events must hold two (2) Registry Events before being 
eligible for hiatus. This does not include the Trial Event year. 
Post-hiatus: 
1. A n event must complete a minimum of two (2) consecutive Registry Events before 
it may go on hiatus again.  
2. If no event is held in the year following the break (i.e., the event is not held for two 
(2) consecutive years), the event will lose its Registry Event status.  
Section 2: Membership Fee, Competition Surcharges, and Competitor 
Results Reporting 
2.1 Membership Fee 
Members must pay an annual fee ($200) for each Registry Event. Membership Fee is 
due within 30 days after the close of the Registry Event (invoiced separately from 
Competitor Surcharge). 
Late submission of Membership Fee may result in penalties. 
2.2. Competitor Surcharge 
Members must pay a Competitor Surcharge to the WSDC for all competitor entries in 
WSDC Jack and Jill contests.  
1. The Competitor Surcharge is $2 per competitor entry (as of Jan. 1, 2026), per 
contest entered (WSDC Jack and Jill contests only)[3 
2. Competitors entering multiple WSDC Jack and Jill contests incur a Competitor 
Surcharge for each WSDC Jack and Jill contest (e.g., a competitor entering an 
Advanced as Follower; Intermediate as Leader; and Masters WSDC Jack and Jill 
contests would result in a $6 Competitor Surcharge).  
3. The Competitor Surcharge is due within 30 days after the close of the Registry 
Event (invoiced separately from Membership Fee). 
Late submission of Competitor Surcharge may result in penalties. 
 
Chart 1: Penalty Chart for Late Membership Fees / Competitor 
Surcharge 

===== PAGE 9 =====
 
9                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
Date Submitted Penalty 
 31-60 days  $50.00 (USD) 
 61-90 days  $100.00 (USD) 
 91-120 days  $150.00 (USD) 
 >120 days  Loss of Registry Event Status 
2.3. Competitor Results Reporting 
Members must report results for all WSDC Jack and Jill competitions to the WSDC, using 
the WSDC Event Reporting Form, including the following information: 
1. All petitions. 
2. Finalists’ WSDC ID numbers (if assigned by the Points Registry) must be included. 
3. The number of competitors in each division, so the appropriate Tier level for 
recording points can be determined. 
4. List of all competitors registered in WSDC Jack and Jill contests 
The Event Director and/or the Chief Judge shall verify contest results and the number of 
contestants. 
Competition results are due to the WSDC at the close of the Registry Event, and no later 
than three (3) days  after the event closes. Submission of contest results in  a timely 
manner is required out of respect for our competitors, so the Points Registry is current for 
upcoming Registry Events. 
Late submission of competition results may result in penalties). 
Chart 2: Penalty Chart for Late Submission of Competition Results 
Date Submitted Penalty 
 4-30 days  $100.00 (USD) 
 >31 days  Loss of Registry Event Status 
 
Section 3: Competition Requirements 
3.1. Contest Structure / Format Requirements 

===== PAGE 10 =====
 
10                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
1. Registry Event must hire sufficient judging staff to run contests and avoid conflicts 
of interest  
2. Registry Events must offer a minimum of two (2) skill level WSDC Jack and Jill 
divisions. 
a. Events are responsible for informing competitors of the Registry Points skill 
levels and points awards as defined by the WSDC. 
b. Events may restrict the number of Jack and Jill contests a competitor may 
enter. This must be published in the Event’s rules. 
c. Events that wish to require male/Leader and female/Follower roles must be 
pre-approved by the Board and this restriction must be published in the 
Event’s rules. 
d. Events may restrict their staff from participating in Jack and Jill or other 
contests. 
e. While Registry Events must be open to everyone, events may set a 
minimum age requirement for contestants. This must be published in the 
Event’s rules. 
3. Registry Events may offer only one (1) WSDC Jack and Jill for each skill level or 
age-based contest. 
a. WSDC will record WSDC points for only one (1) Junior, one (1) 
Sophisticated, and one (1) Masters contest per event (see Definitions: Age-
based Contests). WSDC age-based Jack and Jill contests must be open to 
competitors of all skill levels who meet the age-based requirement.  
b. Events must clearly state  in the Event’s rules  which contests qualify for 
WSDC points (e.g., WSDC Champions Jack and Jill vs Invitational or non-
WSDC Champions contest) 
4. WSDC Jack and Jill competitions must have a minimum of five (5) unique Leaders 
and five (5) unique Followers in finals for points to be awarded and the results to 
be included in the Points Registry. 
5. Registry Events must use the Points Registry, this rules document, and the WSDC 
Skill Level Jack and Jill Advancement Chart to determine competitors’ appropriate 
skill levels. All dancers in a contest must be registered for their contest. 
6. A Petition Process is for competitors who wish to dance in a different skill division: 
a. Petitions can only move your skill level one (1) division, either up or down. 
b. For petitions down (primary role only): 

===== PAGE 11 =====
 
11                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
i. The Chief Judge, or qualified individual(s)/committee designated by 
the Chief Judge, may approve or deny the petition after reviewing the 
competitor's Points Registry record. 
ii. Petitions are event -specific and not transferable. Competitors must 
submit a petition at their next event. 
c. For petitions up: 
i. Petitions must be submitted to the WSDC Chief Judges Committee 
(“CJC”) at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the event, along with 
two (2) videos of the competitor’s dancing. Petitions and videos must 
be submitted. The CJC may approve or deny the petiti on after 
reviewing the competitor’s Points Registry record and videos. 
ii. Petitions will be approved for six (6) months and are transferable to 
other events. Competitors who obtain a point in the higher division 
will remain in the higher division. 
d. Petitions shall not be approved at the Event  for the purpose of making a 
Tier (i.e., to meet the minimum number of required competitors for a Tier). 
e. Events must submit all petitions to the WSDC with the WSDC Event 
Reporting form. 
7. Registry Events may not offer combined WSDC skill -level Jack and Jill divisions 
(e.g., Advanced/All Star Jack and Jill) for registration. 
a. If a division does not meet Tier 1 requirements at registration close (e.g., there 
are insufficient entries in All Star JnJ), the Event Director may either combine 
the division with an adjacent division (e.g. Advanced/ All Star) or cancel the 
one that does not meet the Tier 1 requirement.  
b. When divisions are combined, points are awarded to the lower division (e.g., 
Advanced points for an Advanced/All Star contest), except for a combined 
Newcomer/Novice contest, which awards Novice points. 
c. Competitors are not permitted to dance “down” in a lower skill level contest, if 
the division that they qualify for is not offered (e.g., An Advanced follower may 
not compete as a follower in an Intermediate if an Advanced contest is not 
offered at the event; A Champion leader may not dance as a leader in an All 
Star contest if a Champion contest is not offered). 
8. Contest “restarts” (e.g., due to incorrect song, clothing malfunction, sound or 
lighting issues) may be initiated by the Chief Judge and/or competitor, but only 
approved by the Chief Judge. The Chief Judge may use their discretion to allow 
the competitors to “restart” immediately or at a later time (e.g., at the end of the 
contest). 

===== PAGE 12 =====
 
12                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
9. Registry Events must post contest results at the event and those results shall be 
open to all competitors for a minimum of 30 days.  Contest results include contest 
rounds (e.g., prelims, semis, finals), placements and score reports. (Judges may 
be listed anonymously (e.g., as Judge 1, Judge 2, etc.) on the score report, at the 
Event Director / Owner / Chief Judge’s discretion.)  If results are inaccurate (e.g., 
scoring issues, violations), corrected results must be posted. 
10. For Registry Events held over the New Year’s holiday, points will be assigned to 
December of the outgoing year, not January of the incoming year (e.g., points 
would be awarded for December 2022, not January 2023). 
3.2. Competitors: Skill Levels and Points Registry 
1. Competitors are responsible for following the WSDC Registry Rules. Competitors 
will not receive WSDC points for placement if they fail to follow the WSDC Points 
Registry Rules. 
2. Competitors have one (1) unique WSDC Competitor ID number for the Points 
Registry. 
a. Competitors are responsible for using their WSDC Competitor ID number 
when registering for Jack and Jill competitions at WSDC Registry Events. 
b. Competitors are responsible for correcting their WSDC Competitor ID 
number errors, either at the event or with the WSDC directly. 
c. Competitors will be assigned a WSDC Competitor ID number only after they 
receive a point. 
3. Competitors may compete in a maximum of two (2) skill level WSDC Jack and Jill 
competitions, once in their primary role and once in their secondary role.  
4. Competitors may compete in multiple age-based WSDC Jack and Jill competitions 
for which they qualify. 
5. Competitors may compete in either their primary or secondary role in other 
contests. 
6. Competitors must use the Points Registry, this rules document, and the WSDC 
Skill Level Jack and Jill Advancement Chart ( Chart 3) to determine the skill level 
for their primary role. 
a. Competitors may submit petitions to dance one level “up” or “down” for their 
primary role only . Competitors may only  submit petitions up for  their 
secondary role.  Petitions must be approved or the competitor 
will not receive points for placement.  

===== PAGE 13 =====
 
13                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
b. Competitors who dance in the incorrect skill level division without a 
successful petition must be disqualified and will not receive points for 
placement. 
7. Competitors will be awarded points as either a Leader or Follower. Those points 
are tracked separately in the Points Registry.  
a. The points required for moving up (or down) is based on the points in that 
role, not the combined points in their primary and secondary roles. 
8. The level a competitor is allowed to compete in their primary role determines their 
allowable level in their secondary role. WSDC recommends competitors compete 
in their secondary role one (1) level down from the role they enter in their primary 
role. Competitors may dance two (2) levels down from the highest level they are 
allowed to compete in their primary role, with the following clarifications: 
a. Competitors with points in both their primary and secondary roles at the 
same skill level must select only one (1) role to compete in (either their 
primary or secondary role) for that event’s skill level Jack and Jill contest. 
b. When a competitor has a choice of primary role levels, the highest level 
the competitor qualifies to compete sets the allowable level for their 
secondary role, i.e. the division a competitor chooses for their primary role 
at the Event does not affect what level they may compete at for their 
secondary role.  
c. Competitors may dance two (2) levels down from their primary level (their 
highest competitive level), regardless of whether they choose to compete 
in the primary level for the Event. If they reach the “may” move up level on 
the WSDC Skill Level Jack & Jill Advancement Chart (Chart 3), based on 
their points in their secondary role, at which point they must dance only 
one level down from their highest allowed primary role. See Secondary 
Role WSDC Skill Level Jack & Jill Advancement Chart (Chart 4).  
d. Petitions down are not allowed for secondary roles. 
e. Competitors may dance in Newcomer, at events where it is offered, in the 
following scenarios: 
i. In either role, if they have no points in either role; or 
ii. In their secondary role if they have fewer than 16 Novice points in 
their primary role and have no points at any level in their secondary 
role. Note that competitors who are allowed to compete in 
Intermediate in their primary role (no matter what level they choose 
to compete in at the Event) may not compete in Newcomer in their 
secondary role. 

===== PAGE 14 =====
 
14                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
9. Points are recorded only for those who place in WSDC Jack and Jill finals (see 
Chart 4: Points Awarded per Tier). 
10. If a competitor places twice in a division, the competitor is only awarded points for 
the higher placement (e.g., the contest  goes straight to finals with uneven 
numbers; competitor places 2nd and 5th; competitor is awarded points for 2nd 
place). 
11. For WSDC Champion Jack and Jill contests, competitors may compete (“are 
allowed”) if they have 1 Champion point or 150 All Star points and must compete 
(“are required”) if they have 10 Champion points or 225 All Star points, assuming 
the event offers a WSDC Champion Jack and Jill contest. 
a. Events may no longer define their Champion division by including other 
qualifications (e.g., alternative predefined number of Champion / Invitational 
points, NASDE Classic or Showcase placements), but may offer a non-
WSDC Champions contest, Invitational, or show as an alternative with 
different qualifications for entry.
[5] 
b. Competitors with 10+ Champion points and/or 225+ All Star points (“are 
required” to compete in Champions) may not enter All Star contests without 
an approved petition, but may enter a combined All Star / Champion 
contest. 
 
 
 
 
 
  

===== PAGE 15 =====
 
15                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
Chart 3: WSDC Skill Level Jack and Jill Advancement Chart 
Skill Level[6] WSDC Category 
Definitions 
Allowed 
(Dancers are given 
the option to move to the 
next skill level) 
Required 
(Dancers are required to move 
to the next skill level) 
Champion 
Champions are 
defined for WSDC 
Champion Jack and 
Jill contests.[7] 
Allowed to dance in 
Champions with 1 
Champion points 
Required to dance in 
Champions with 10 
Champion points 
Champion 
All Star 
All Stars should be 
extremely 
competitive. 
Allowed to move up with 
150 All Star points 
Required to move up 
with 225 All Star points 
All Star 
Advanced Advanced should be 
very competitive. 
Allowed to move up 
with 60 Advanced 
points 
Required to move up 
with 90 Advanced points 
or 1 All Star point 
Advanced 
Intermediate 
Intermediate dancers 
are perfecting their 
competitive skills. 
Allowed to move up with 
30 Intermediate points 
Required to move up with 
45 Intermediate points or 
1 Advanced point 
Intermediate 
Novice 
Novice dancers 
demonstrate basic 
dance skills. 
Allowed to move up with 
16 Novice points 
Required to move up with 
30 Novice points or 1 
Intermediate point 
Novice 
Newcomer[8] 
Newcomers are 
dancers who are new 
to competition. 
Allowed to move up at 
the dancer's discretion. 
Required to move up with 
1 Newcomer point or 1 
Novice point 
Newcomer 
 
 
  

===== PAGE 16 =====
 
16                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
Chart 4: WSDC Secondary Role Skill Level Jack & Jill Advancement Chart 
 
 
 
P 
Primary Role 
Competition 
Level 
Primary 
Role Points 
Suggested  
Secondary Role 
Allowed 
Secondary Role 
Champion  All Star 
All Star or Advanced 
(Required to move up to All 
Star at 60+ Secondary Role 
Advanced points) 
All Star  
 
150+ All 
Star points Advanced Advanced 
<150 All 
Star points Advanced 
Advanced or Intermediate  
(Required to move up to 
Advanced at 30+ Secondary 
Role Intermediate points) 
Advanced 
60+ 
Advanced 
points 
Intermediate Intermediate 
<60 
Advanced 
points 
Intermediate 
Intermediate or Novice 
(Required to move up to 
Intermediate at 16+ Secondary 
Role Novice points) 
Intermediate 
<45 
Intermediate 
points 
Novice Novice 
Novice 
16+ Novice 
points Novice Novice 
<16 Novice 
points Newcomer 
Novice or Newcomer 
(Required to move up to Novice 
with 1+ Secondary Role points 
at any level.) 
Newcomer 0 points Newcomer or Novice 
Note that you can only enter a 
given level once, as either lead 
or follow, not both. 

===== PAGE 17 =====
 
17                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
3.3. Contest Tiers, Points Awarded, and Competition Rounds 
3.3.1. Point Tier Awards 
Tiers are defined by the number of unique competitors in each role (Leader or Follower). 
Dancing in finals does not guarantee that a competitor will be awarded points. Points 
awarded to Leaders and Followers may not be identical. The higher the number of 
competitors within a division, the higher the Tier, and the greater the points potential. 
A division may have different tiers for Leaders and Followers. For example, a Novice 
contest may have 18 Leaders and 35 Followers. Leaders would receive Tier 2 points; 
Followers would receive Tier 3 points. The points awarded to a competitor according to 
their placement in finals is listed in Chart 4. 
Registry Events are allowed to waive a competition round if the number of competitors is 
no more than 10% over the previous Tier’s maximum (e.g., a Tier 4 contest with 43 
Followers (and fewer than 39 Leaders) could run a prelims and finals only). This is allowed 
to provide stability for contest planning. 
Chart 5: Points Awarded per Tier 
Tier 
# of Unique 
Competitors (per 
role) 
1st Place 2nd Place 3rd Place 4th Place 5th Place 
Additional 
Placements in 
Final 
Tier 
1 5-10 3 2 1 0 0 0 
Tier 
2 11-19 6 4 3 2 1 0 
Tier 
3 20-39 10 8 6 4 2 1 (up 
to 10th place) 
Tier 
4 40-79 15 12 10 8 6 1 (up to 
12th place) 
Tier 
5 80-129 20 16 14 12 10 2 (up to 
15th place) 
Tier 
6 130+ 25 22 18 15 12 2 (up to 
15th place) 
 
3.3.2. Competition Rounds 
If the leaders and followers fall into different tiers, the number of rounds must be 
determined by the higher tier. The minimum number of rounds for tiers is mandatory. 

===== PAGE 18 =====
 
18                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
Chart 6: Competition Rounds Based on Tier Size 
Tier Number of 
Competitors 
Number of 
Rounds Prelims Quarters Semis Finals 
1 5 -10 1 
Allowed if 
numbers are 
uneven 
  Yes 
2 11 - 19 1-2 Optional   Yes 
3 20 - 39 2 Yes  Optional Yes 
4 40 - 79 3 Yes Optional Yes[9] Yes 
5 80 - 129 3-4 Yes Encouraged Yes Yes 
6 130 + 3-4 Yes Encouraged Yes Yes 
 
3.4. Contest Oversight: Staff Requirements, Conflicts of Interest, 
Scoring 
Registry Events must  follow the highest ethical standards regarding the conduct of 
contests. Disregard of ethical standards, even if not specifically outlined in the Registry 
Event Rules, may result in penalties by the Board. 
Rules that affect the integrity of a contest – particularly where results / scores could be 
impacted – apply to all contests held at the event. All efforts must be made to conduct 
unbiased judging and to avoid any tampering with contests and contest results. 
Registry Events must follow all contest oversight requirements outlined below, unless 
otherwise approved by the Board: 
1. Event Director(s) and/or Owner(s) must not perform Chief Judge, Judge, or 
Scoring functions or duties. 
a. Event Director(s) or Owner(s)’ spouses and immediate family may also not 
perform Chief Judge or Scoring duties. 
2. Event Director(s), Owner(s), or their spouses and children;  Chief Judge, 
Secondary Chief Judge (see Definitions: Secondary Chief Judge), and Score 
person (or Contest Administrator with automated scoring systems) must not 
compete in any swing contests at the event, with the following 
exceptions/clarifications: 
a. Non-judged contests (e.g., exhibitions).  
b. Any contest of a different dance genre and/or sponsored and run by a 
separate organization. Exceptions must be authorized by the Board two (2) 
months prior to the event. (E.g., at UCWDC events only, Event Director, 

===== PAGE 19 =====
 
19                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
Owner, Chief Judge, and Score person may dance in a UCWDC Pro- Am 
West Coast Swing contest. This exception is allowed as a carve out to 
accommodate UCWDC rules.) 
3. Chief Judge and Scoring / Tabulation functions and duties must be provided by 
separate individuals. 
4. A Chief Judge must review all finalists prior to posting or starting finals.  
5. Judges and scorekeepers may not take on any additional roles or responsibilities 
(e.g. MCs, DJs, Contest Team, photographer, etc.) during that specific contest.  
a. Exception: When a champion’s or invitational division is being self judged, 
a contestant can hold more than one role in addition to being on the judges 
panel.  
b. Judges must make decisions independently. Tampering or altering contest 
scores is not allowed. 
c. Group judging decisions (instantaneous “on the floor”), “tap out” 
eliminations during the contest (by an individual judge or as a group), or 
audience-judging are permitted only in non- WSDC Jack and Jill contests / 
“fun” contests (e.g., tournament-style contests, costume contests). 
6. All conflicts of interest must be identified and avoided.  This is the responsibility of 
Event Directors, Chief Judge, and judges. 
a. Conflicts of interest are defined as the following: any Judge/ Chief Judge 
who is judging an immediate family member, current spouse / significant 
other, established dance partner, or current business partner (e.g., co-
Owners, Event Co- Directors, teaching partners who are contracted 
together). 
i. The WSDC recommends staff members avoid real or perceived bias 
(positive or negative) between them and other members of the 
community, but will enforce only conflicts of interest as defined 
above. Staff members are responsible for providing conflicts of 
interest to the Chief Judge and/or Event Directors. 
b. Judging assignments must be made to prevent conflicts. Judges / Chief 
Judges must recuse themselves from a judging panel to prevent conflicts. 
The following exceptions are allowed: 
i. Pro-Am Jack and Jill and Pro- Am Strictly Swing competitions when 
judges are judging the Amateurs only and conflict is with the Pro. 
ii. A judge with a conflict of interest to a competitor may judge the 
opposite role to that competitor during Jack and Jill  preliminary 
rounds. 

===== PAGE 20 =====
 
20                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
iii. Self-judging contests are allowed only in Champions and invitational 
contests. Here is the link for guidelines:  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zFJN6PnRY4Kc4HQcC2Atg
YuvYsczlPeStRFNe0_ZI4U/edit?usp=sharing 
iv. When necessary for a specific contest, the Chief Judge may be 
replaced by the Secondary Chief Judge. 
7. Judges for WSDC Jack and Jill contests must meet the following standards: 
a. For preliminary Jack and Jill contests, a minimum of four (4) judges per role 
(plus Chief Judge) are required. The WSDC strongly recommends Registry 
Events use at least five (5) judges per role in larger (Tier 5 and 6) preliminary 
contests to avoid ties. The following exception for contests is allowed: 
i. An Event may assign some or all of the judges in the judging panel 
to score both roles for contests in Tiers 1- 3. Additional songs per 
round may be needed. A minimum of four (4) scores per role is still 
required. 
b. For final Jack and Jill contests, a minimum of five (5) judges (plus Chief 
Judge) are required. An even number of judges shall not be used.  The 
WSDC requires Events to use seven (7) judges for finals in Tiers 5- 6. 
c. The Chief Judge may join the general judging panel only if there is an 
unforeseen / unavoidable shortage of general judges. 
d. Virtual judging is not permitted 
8. All WSDC Jack and Jill contests must maintain the integrity of random and 
unbiased selection (i.e., rotating partners, pairing of partners, and music selection). 
For example, rotation of partners in prelims and the selection of partners in finals 
should be random; music assignments should be fair to all competitors. Note: a 
choice of music categories (e.g., slow blues / fast contemporary) for finals may be 
offered. 
9. All WSDC Jack and Jill contests must use the WSDC-approved Callback system 
for preliminary competitions and Relative Placement scoring system for finals. 
a. Judges are allowed to use paper or an electronic system. 
b. All events must use a computerized system to calculate scores. Score 
person and/or Chief Judge may do calculations for contest results by hand 
(“hand scoring”) only in emergency situations. 
i. Transfer of judges’ paper score sheet results to computerized 
systems must be audited by the Chief Judge and/or scoring team 
approved by the Chief Judge (i.e, verified by a separate person than 
the Score person inputting the data). 

===== PAGE 21 =====
 
21                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
c. Chief Judges must assign unique numerical raw scores to all competitors in 
preliminary rounds. If necessary, the Chief Judge may raw score one role 
and assign a Secondary Chief Judge or Raw Score Judge (see Definitions: 
Secondary Chief Judge and Raw Score Judge) to raw score the other role 
(e.g., Chief Judge scores Leaders; Secondary Chief Judge / Raw Score 
Judge scores Followers). (Note: Secondary Chief Judge or Raw Score 
Judge must also assign unique numerical raw scores to the competitors.) 
d. Details on the Callback system standardization and requirements are listed 
in the Appendix. Additional information on the Callback system and Relative 
Placement is available on the WSDC website under Rules, see Prelim 
Scoring and Relative Placement, respectively). 
e. Requirements for computerized scoring systems are listed in the Appendix. 
f. For non- WSDC contests, Registry Events must publish if and for which 
contest(s) they opt not  to use the Callback and/or Relative Placement 
scoring systems. 
Section 4: WSDC Enforcement Policy and Penalties 
Registry Event rules are enforced by the WSDC. Membership and Registry Event 
approval / denial, rule changes, and penalties shall be at the discretion of the Board. 
Unless otherwise approved, any WSDC Professional Member or Registry Event that does 
not comply with the WSDC Registry Event Rules will be considered in default of their 
membership and subject to penalties and/or loss of Registry Event status. 
The WSDC has  developed a collaborative process for addressing issues (e.g., rule 
violations) that occur at Registry Events. Events may implement a mutually agreed upon 
and approved Action Plan to address the issue(s). The draft Action Plan addressing the 
issue should be submitt ed within 10 days of notice and be approved by both the Event 
and Board within 30-60 days. The Action Plan should address the following: 
1. What happened 
2. Who was impacted 
3. How to repair what happened (including communication plan to impacted parties) 
4. How to prevent it in the future 
5. Follow up reporting on implementation of the repair and proposed prevention 
(accountability follow up) 
When an approved Action Plan is implemented and followed, the Registry Event is no 
longer considered in violation or in default. The Action Plan may be implemented by the 
Event Owner(s), Event Director(s), the Certified Chief Judge and/or other relevant parties. 

===== PAGE 22 =====
 
22                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
Members and/or Chief Judges who violate Registry Event rules and/or fail to fully 
implement the Action Plan will be in default. Default may result one or more of the 
following options: 
1. Warning or Probation 
2. Loss of Registry Event status 
a. Events who lose status are allowed to reapply for Registry Event approval, 
including a new Trial Event.  
3. Drop in or Loss of Certified Chief Judge status 
Penalties specific to late submission of Membership fees, Competitor Surcharge, and 
competition results are detailed in Charts 1 and 2.  Penalties for all other Registry Event 
rules violations are detailed in Chart 6. Members in default may reapply for WSDC 
membership or Registry Event status, subject to approval by the Board. 
Chart 7:  WSDC Penalties for Registry Event Rules Violations 
Level Possible Penalty Description of Issue 
One Warning or 
Probation (1 year) 
Did not know or understand current WSDC Registry Event 
Rules. 
Minor impact to the reputation of the event. 
Two Probation (1 year) 
Knew, or by exercising reasonable diligence, should have 
known that the act or omission did not follow current WSDC 
Registry Event rules. 
Moderate impact to event participants and/or the integrity of 
the event / contests. 
Three Probation (1-2 
years) and Fine 
Displayed conscious, intentional failure or reckless indifference 
to following WSDC Registry Event rules. 
Major impact to event participants and/or the integrity of the 
event / contests 
Four Loss of Registry 
Event status 
Exhibited purposeful intent or indifference to current WSDC 
Registry Event rules. 
Extreme impact to event participants and/or the integrity of the 
event / contests. 
 
 
Section 5: Callback System for Preliminary Competitions 
The Callback System for preliminary competitions has been standardized. The following 
point values must be assigned to judges’ callbacks: 

===== PAGE 23 =====
 
23                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
1. Yes = 10 
2. Alternate 1 (Alt 1) = 4.5; Alternate 2 = 4.3; Alternate 3 = 4.2 
3. No = 0. 
Scoring systems should not use more than 3 levels of Alternates (i.e., no Alternate 4). At 
their discretion, the Chief Judge may ask judges to use Alt 1s; Alt 1s & Alt 2s; or Alt 1, Alt 
2 & Alt 3s for any specific contest. In larger contests, to minimize the potential for ties, the 
Chief Judge may ask for two (2) or more Alt 1s; Alt 1 & Alt 2s; or Alt 1, Alt 2, & Alt 3s. 
The outcome for callbacks must be determined by the sum of the values. 
1. Only after the original calculations are complete, the Chief Judge’s scores break 
the tie. 
Section 6: Computerized Scoring System Requirements 
A computerized scoring system should do the following tasks: 
1. Place competitors within the various divisions and contests. 
2. Create preliminary and finals contest judging sheets with pre- populated 
information. 
3. Tabulate and rank callbacks. See Section 5 (Callback System for Preliminary 
Competitions) on requirements for ranking callbacks. 
4. Create callback announcement sheets. 
5. Transfer competitors to finals. 
6. Randomly assign partners (if needed). 
7. Place paired competitors in random dance order or place competitors in numerical 
order for “draw for dance order,” as needed. 
8. Tabulate and rank finals contests for placement results. 
9. Provide limited access to authorized users only, as appropriate (e.g., Chief Judge, 
judges). 
10. Prevent tampering and/or changes to results by unauthorized users. 
11. Provide results / announcement / posting sheets. 
12. Provide WSDC scoring report to WSDC. 

===== PAGE 24 =====
 
24                                                                               Version 2026.1B 
 
Section 7: WSDC Judges Certification and Affiliated Judges Program 
Launch Date: January 1, 2027 
WSDC Anticipated Guidelines: All registry events are expected to meet the initial target 
participation with the program. We anticipate that the initial guidelines will fall between 
30% and 50%. 
WSDC Monitoring and Review: As the certification is rolled out through 2026, WSDC will 
monitor, review, and list global -certified judging resources. We expect registry events to 
meet the anticipated guidelines for 2027.  
 