===== PAGE 1 =====
Points Registry Updated 11.2008   1 of 2 
World Swing Dance Council  
407 Dahlia   Corona del Mar, CA   92625     www.swingdancecouncil.com 
 
 
World Swing Dance Council  
407 Dahlia   Corona del Mar, CA   92625     www.swingdancecouncil.com 
 
 
WSDC Points Registry Document 
 
Division  Requirements  Recorded/Tracked  
Newcomer  None –  normally beginner, perhaps never competed  Recorded  
Junior  None –  norma lly age -based  Recorded  
Masters  Check event rules - normally age -based + other requirements  Re corded  
All Star  Recommend at least 40 Advanced points –  check event rules, 
may have other requirements 
Recorded  
Champions/Invitational/Pro  Check event rules - normally have specific  requirements  Recorded  
 
Division  Minimum Points Required  Recorded/Tracke d 
Novice  None –  normally new to dancing in competitions  Tracked and points used to move forward  
Intermediate  20 Novice Points  Tracked and points used to move forward  
Advanced  25 Intermediate Points  Tracked and points used to move forward  
 
This new structure and points recorded/tracked will be effe ctive January 1, 2009.  This new point structure is from t his 
date forward, and past points will not be affected.  These Tiers are based solely on the number of competitors and not the 
size of the event. The Competitor's Points Registry is meant as a tool 
 to assist both the Promoter and the Contestant. 
 
Only current WSDC Registry Member Events for Jack & Jill competition results in the Points Registry Books for 
male/leader and female/follower competitors. The WSDC records points  for: Juniors, Newcomer, Masters, All Star, and 
Champion/Pro/Invitational but do not necessarily consider them a "level of dance".  These divisions are recorded  but do 
not require points to move into them (normally).  We track points  for:  Novice, Intermediate, and Advanced.  Points will 
be tracked  based on the tiers below determined by number of competito rs and used to decide appropriate divisions or to 
move up.   Please be sure to check every individual event rules  regarding their requirements to dance in any division. 
 
The event director is responsible to report the results of Jack & Jill competitions to the WSDC within 10 days of their 
event. They are also responsible for advising the WSDC how many contestants were in each category, thereby setting up 
the Tier level for recording points, as stated below.  Even t Directors are also responsible for informing contestants of the 
point structure detailed below.  The WSDC determines recorded or tracked  points based on this input. 
 
The competitor is responsible for knowing your WSDC assigned competitor ID number.  Please use this ID number when 
signing up for J&J contests at events.  Competitors shoul d know what division they should be competing in but use the 
Points Registry for guidelines if you are unsure.  If the event allows you to petition down or up, please do so according to 
that event’s requirements.  Know the rules of every individual event prior to competing! 
 
Points are recorded/tracked as follows: 
    When couples are not even, the “number of couples” is dete rmined by the 
lowest number of dancers between leaders and followers. The minimum number of couples to make a contest eligible for 
recording/tracking is five (5).   
 
Tier  / # of Couples  1st  Place  2nd  Place  3rd  Place  4th  Place  5th  Place  Additional  
Tier 1 = 5 -15  5 4 3 2 1 0 
Tier 2 = 16 -39  10  8 6 4 2 6 to 10 th  1 pt  
Tier 3 = 40+  15  12  10  8 6 1 pt all finalists  
 
TIER 1 - 5 to 15 Couples  (Could be run as a "finals only", or perhaps semi and final)  
TIER 2 – 16 to 39 Couples  (Should at least be run as a semi/final, but could be prelim / semi / final) 
TIER 3 – 40+ Couples  (With this number of competitors, should be 3 rounds – prelim / semi / final)  


===== PAGE 2 =====
Points Registry Updated 11.2008   2 of 2 
World Swing Dance Council  
407 Dahlia   Corona del Mar, CA   92625     www.swingdancecouncil.com 
 
  
 
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS & FURTHER CLARIFICATIONS  
 
We hope to answer some frequently asked questions (FAQs) a bout how points are recorded/tracked in the Points 
Registry.  It’s the responsibility of the Event Director and Competitor to be aware of these rules. 
  
1)  The WSDC only tracks and records points for Jack & Jill contests.  Points will only be tracked or recorded for 
those who danced in the final round only. 
2)  Points are tracked and recorded for female-followers and male-leaders.   
3)  Contests where the leader or follower dances and places twice in that division (Tier 2), that individual will onl y 
be awarded points in the highest of the two placements. 
4)  For events that combine divisions (i.e. Novice/Inte rmediate), points will be tracked for all contestants in the 
lower 
 of the two divisions. 
5)  For events that offer only one division (i.e. “Open”), po ints will be tracked in Advanced. 
6)  For events that have different category names per division, please verify with the Event Director as to how points 
will be tracked/recorded within the WSDC Points Registry  guidelines.  We recommend that Event Directors 
cover this terminology in their competition rule package.  Note what divisions are recognized by the WSDC. 
7)  For events that are held over New Years’ holiday, poin ts will show as of December-end of that year (versus 
using January of the New Year). 
8)  Points received prior to the last five (5) current years  will not show on the Event Director’s copy of Regist ry 
Books. They will be archived and available to see on the website (in other words, they are not “taken away”). 
Note:  Removed original #2 referencing point assignments 
 
Recommendations:  
Novice: 
  A competitor must stay in Novice until they have earne d at least 20 points  in Novice. In addition, a competitor 
may stay in the Novice division until they have both 20 points and a first place win in Novice.  
Intermediate:   A competitor must stay in Intermediate until they ha ve earned at least 25 points  in Intermediate. In 
addition, a competitor may stay in the Intermediate divisio n until they have both 25 points and a first place win in 
Intermediate. 
Advanced: 
  You must have at least 25 points in Intermediate in order to move into Advanced. 
All Stars:   Not all events offer this division.  We recommend that at least one of the qualifications to dance in All Stars is 
that the competitor has at least 40 points in Advanced.  However, this is at the event’s discretion. 
Petitions:   If an event offers petitions, we suggest that a commi ttee, including the chief judge, consider the requested 
reclassification/petition after reviewing the dancer's  record. We recommend that the Event Director will se lect this 
committee prior to the Event. For competitors, please note that if you have petitioned to dance in a higher di vision at one 
event, this does not "carry over" to the next Event. You may need to petition at the next Event as well. 
 
In addition to the above recommendations, the WSDC also recommends that a competitor only be allowed to dance in one 
Jack & Jill division/category per event. 
 
Please remember to check every individual event’s rule s/guidelines regarding their competitions and their 
requirement.   Sometimes they will vary from the WSDC recommended rules/guidelines. 
  
The Points Registry is available at 
http://www.swingdancecouncil.com/registry_search.asp .   A published version (hard 
copy or soft copy), detailing the individual results up to 60 points and showing the past five (5) years of competing, is 
given to the Event Director (WSDC Members only) just prior to their Event.  
