===== PAGE 1 =====
Points Registry 1-1-07   1 of 2 
World Swing Dance Council 407 Dahlia   Corona del Mar, CA   92625     www.swingdancecouncil.com   World Swing Dance Council 407 Dahlia   Corona del Mar, CA   92625     www.swingdancecouncil.com     WSDC Points Registry Document  Due to the mass number of events and competitors, the WSDC has a need to reformulate and restructure the awarding of competition points and overall structure.  Please see the new structure and points awarded below that will be effective January 1, 2007.  Note that this new point structure is from this date forward, and past points will not be affected.  Also note that these new Tiers are based solely on the number of competitors in each contest at individual WSDC member events.  This structure is guided by the number of competitors per contest, not the size of the event.  Current WSDC Registry Member Events will be the only Jack and Jill competition results recorded in the Points Registry Books for male/leader and female/follower competitors. The WSDC will record points for: Juniors, Masters, Champions/Professional/Invitational but do not necessarily consider them a "level of dance".  We will track points for:  Newcomer, Novice, Intermediate, Advanced, All Star.  The Jack & Jill Competitor's Points Registry is meant as a tool to assist both the Promoter and the Contestant.  The event director is responsible to report the results of Jack & Jill competitions to the WSDC. They are also responsible for advising the WSDC how many contestants were in each category, thereby setting up the Tier level for recording points, as stated below.  Event Directors are also responsible for informing contestants of the point structure detailed below.   The competitor is responsible for knowing your WSDC assigned competitor ID number.  Please use this ID number when signing up for J&J contests at events.  Competitors should know what division they should be competing in but use the Points Registry for guidelines if you are unsure.  If the event allows you to petition down or up, please do so according to that events requirements.  Know the rules of every individual event prior to competing.  Points are awarded as follows: 
  
Note:  When we refer to couples and the numbers are not even, we are counting the lower number (i.e. 47 leaders and 63 followers - we consider this the category of "47 couples"). Please note that contests of less than 5 couples will not be eligible as a WSDC Registry contest, and no points will be awarded / tracked.  TIER 1 - 5 to 15 Couples (Could be run as a "finals only", or perhaps semi and final): Only the Top 5 Couples are awarded / tracked points (per dancer). 1st = 8 pts., 2nd = 6 pts., 3rd = 4 pts., 4th = 2 pts., 5th = 1 pt.  TIER 2  
16 to 39 Couples (Should at least be run as a semi/final, but could be prelim / semi / final): Only the Top 10 Couples are awarded / tracked points (per dancer). 1st = 10 pts., 2nd = 8 pts., 3rd = 6 pts., 4th = 4 pts., 5th = 2 pts., 6th   (up to) 10th Finalists: 1 pt.  TIER 3  
40+ Couples (With this number of competitors, should have 3 rounds  prelim / semi / final): All finalists are awarded/tracked points. 1st = 12 pts., 2nd = 10 pts., 3rd = 8 pts., 4th = 6 pts., 5th = 4 pts., Additional Finalists: 1 pt.  Thank you,  WSDC Board of Directors 


===== PAGE 2 =====
Points Registry 1-1-07   2 of 2 
World Swing Dance Council 407 Dahlia   Corona del Mar, CA   92625     www.swingdancecouncil.com     FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS & FURTHER CLARIFICATIONS  We hope to answer some frequently asked questions (FAQs) about how points are recorded in the Points Registry.  Its the responsibility of the Event Director and Competitor to be aware of these rules.   1) For J&J contests where the leader or follower dances and places twice in that division (Tier 2), that individual will only be awarded points in the highest of the two placements. 2) For events that combine divisions (i.e. Novice/Intermediate), points will be recorded to all in the lower 
of the two divisions. 3) For events that offer only one division (i.e. Open), points will be recorded in Advanced. 4) For events that have different category names per division, please verify with the Event Director as to how points will be awarded within the WSDC Points Registry.  The WSDC recognizes Newcomer, Novice, Intermediate, Advanced, All Star, Masters, Junior, Champions/Professional/Invitational.  We recommend that Event Directors cover this terminology in their competition rule package. 5) For events that are held over New Years holiday, points will show as of December-end of that year (versus using January of the New Year). 6) Points received prior to the last five (5) current years will not show on the Event Directors copy of Registry Books. They will be archived and available to see on the website (in other words, they are not taken away). 7) (1) Masters/Juniors/Professional-Instructor divisions are not considered levels of dance although points are awarded; (2) Invitational Division is not necessarily a level of dance. It is the Event Directors option to invite competitors to dance at his/her event; (3) Champions Division is considered a top level dancer, but that decision still rests with rules of the Event Director; (4) Champions of Champions Division is often a result of votes tabulated annually from the past and current Champion dancers in that division.  Further recommendations:  Novice: 
 
A competitor should stay in Novice until they have earned at least 20 points 
in Novice. In addition, a competitor may stay in the Novice division until they have both 20 points and a first place win in Novice.  Intermediate: 
 
A competitor should stay in Intermediate until they have earned at least 25 points 
in Intermediate. In addition, a competitor may stay in the Intermediate division until they have both 25 points and a first place win in Intermediate. All Stars: 
 
Not all events offer this division.  We recommend that at least one of the qualifications to dance in All Stars is that the competitor has at least 40 points in Advanced.  However, this is at the events discretion. Petitions: 
 
If an event offers petitions, we suggest that a committee, including the chief judge, consider the requested reclassification/petition after reviewing the dancer's record. We recommend that the Event Director will select this committee prior to the Event. For competitors, please note that if you have petitioned to dance in a higher division at one event, this does not "carry over" to the next Event. You may need to petition at the next Event as well.   The Points Registry is available at http://www.swingdancecouncil.com/registry_search.asp.   A published version (hard copy or soft copy), detailing the individual results up to 60 points and showing the past five (5) years of competing, is given to the Event Director (WSDC Members only) just prior to their Event.  
