===== PAGE 1 =====
Points Registry Updated 8.2010 effective 1.1.2011   1 of 2 
World Swing Dance Council 
407 Dahlia   Corona del Mar, CA   92625     www.swingdancecouncil.com  
 
 
World Swing Dance Council 
407 Dahlia   Corona del Mar, CA   92625     www.swingdancecouncil.com 
  
WSDC Points Registry Document 
 
Division Requirements Recorded/Tracked 
Newcomer None – normally beginner, perhaps never competed Recorded 
Junior None – normally age-based Recorded 
Masters Check event rules - normally age-based + other requirements Recorded 
All Star Recommend at least 40 Advanced points – check event rules Recorded 
Champions/Invitational/Pro Check event rules - normally have specific requirements Recorded 
 
Division Minimum Points Required Recorded/Tracked 
Novice None – normally new to dancing in competitions Tracked and points used to move forward 
Intermediate 20 Novice Points  Tracked and points used to move forward 
Advanced 25 Intermediate Points  Tracked and points used to move forward 
 
This new structure and points recorded/tracked will be effective January 1, 20 11.  With the increasing amount of 
competitors and often “uneven” numbers within a competition (i.e. more followers than leaders), it has been decided that 
the WSDC will recognize and award the Tier points based on the  number of individual competitors.  If within one 
competition there are Tier 1 amount of leaders but Tier 2 amount of followers, points will be awarded separately for 
leaders and followers in finals.   This new point structure is from this date forward, and  past points will not be affected.  
These Tiers are based solely on the number of competitors and  not the size of the event. The Competitor's Points Registry 
is meant as a tool to assist both the Promoter and the Contestant. 
 
Only c urrent WSDC Registry Mem ber Events for Jack & Jill competition results in the Points Registry Books for 
male/leader and female/follower competitors. The WSDC  records points for: Juniors, Newcomer, Masters, All Star, and 
Champion/Pro/Invitational but do not necessarily consider th em a "level of dance".  We track points  for:  Novice, 
Intermediate, and Advanced.  Points will be tracked based on the tiers below determined by number of competitors  and 
used to decide appropriate divisions or to move up .   Please be sure to check every individual event rules regarding their 
requirements to dance in any division. 
 
The event director is responsible to report the results of Jack & Jill competitions to the WSDC  within 10 days of their 
event. They are also responsible for advising the WSDC how  many contestants were in each category, thereby setting up 
the Tier level for recording points, as stated below.  Event Directors are also responsible for informing contestants of the 
point structure detailed below.  The WSDC determines recorded or tracked points based on this input. 
 
The competitor is responsible for knowing your WSDC assigned competitor ID number.  Please use this ID number when 
signing up for J&J contests at events.  Competitors should know what division they should be competing in but use the 
Points Registry for guidelines if you are unsure.  If the event allows you to petition down or up, please do so according to 
that event’s requirements.  Know the rules of every individual event prior to competing! 
 
Points are recorded/tracked as fo llows:    When number of competitors is “uneven”, points will be recorded/tracked 
separately by leader/follower.  The minimum number of couples (even leaders & followers) to make a contest eligible for 
recording/tracking is five (5).   
 
Tier / # of Competitors 1st Place 2nd Place 3rd Place 4th Place 5th Place Additional 
Tier 1 = 5-15 5 4 3 2 1 0 
Tier 2 = 16-39 10 8 6 4 2 6 to 10th 1 pt 
Tier 3 = 40+ 15 12 10 8 6 1 pt all finalists 
 
TIER 1 - 5 to 15 Competitors (Could be run as a "finals only", or perhaps semi and final) 
TIER 2 – 16 to 39 Competitors (Should at least be run as a semi/final, but could be prelim / semi / final) 
TIER 3 – 40+ Competitors (With this number of competitors, should be 3 rounds – prelim / semi / final) 


===== PAGE 2 =====
Points Registry Updated 8.2010 effective 1.1.2011   2 of 2 
World Swing Dance Council 
407 Dahlia   Corona del Mar, CA   92625     www.swingdancecouncil.com  
 
  
 
 
 
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS & FURTHER CLARIFICATIONS 
 
We hope to answer some frequently asked questions (FAQs) about how points are recorded /tracked in the Points 
Registry.  It’s the responsibility of the Event Director and Competitor to be aware of these rules.  
  
1) The WSDC only tracks and records points for Jack & Jill contests.  Points will only be tracked or recorded for 
those who danced in the final round only. 
2) Points are tracked and recorded for female-followers and male-leaders.   
3) Contests where the leader or follower dances  and places twice in that division (Tier 2), that individual will only 
be awarded points in the highest of the two placements. 
4) For events that combine divisions (i.e. Novice/Intermediate), points will be tracked for all contestants  in the 
lower of the two divisions. 
5) For events that offer only one division (i.e. “Open”), points will be tracked in Advanced. 
6) For events that have different category names per division, please verify with the Event Director as to how points 
will be  tracked/recorded within the WSD C Points Registry  guidelines.  We recommend that Event Directors 
cover this terminology in their competition rule package.  Note what divisions are recognized by the WSDC. 
7) For events that are held over New Years’ holiday, points will show as of December -end of that year (versus 
using January of the New Year). 
8) Points received prior to the last five (5) current years will not show on the Event Director’s copy of Registry 
Books. They will be archived and available to see on the website (in other words, they ar e not “taken away”). 
 
Recommendations:  
Novice:  A competitor must stay in Novice until they have earned at least 20 points  in Novice. In addition, a competitor 
may stay in the Novice division until they have both 20 points and a first place win in Novice.   
Intermediate:  A competitor must stay in Intermediate until they have earned at least 25 points  in Intermediate. In 
addition, a competitor may stay in the Intermediate division until they have both 25 points and a first place win in 
Intermediate. 
Advanced:  You must have at least 25 points in Intermediate in order to move into Advanced.  
All Stars:  Not all events offer this division.  We recommend that at least one of the qualifications to dance in All Stars is 
that the competitor has at least 40 points in Advanced.  However, this is at the event’s discretion. 
Petitions:  If an event offers petitions, we suggest that a committee, including the chief judge, consider the requested 
reclassification/petition after reviewing the dancer's record. We recommend th at the Event Director will select this 
committee prior to the Event. For competitors, please note that if you have petitioned to dance in a higher division at one 
event, this does not "carry over" to the next Event. You may need to petition at the next Eve nt as well. 
 
In addition to the above recommendations, the WSDC also recommends that a competitor only be allowed to dance in one 
Jack & Jill division/category per event. 
 
Please remember to check every individual event’s rules/guidelines regarding their c ompetitions and their 
requirement.   Sometimes they will vary from the WSDC recommended rules/guidelines.  
  
The Points Registry is available at http://www.swingdancecouncil.com/registry_search.asp.   A published version (hard 
copy or soft copy), detailing the individual results up to 60 points and showing the past five (5) years of competing, is 
given to the Event Director (WSDC Members only) just prior to their Event.   
